---
title: Creating a Server Cluster
metaTitle: Creating a Server Cluster
metaDescription: description
---

<div class="index">

create server cluster

</div>

To create a server cluster, click the `New Cluster` button from the
`Clusters` tab to open the `Create a new Server Cluster` dialog and
define a new cluster.

The `Create a New Server Cluster` dialog will prompt you to select a
deployment option.

![*Specify your server launch
preferences.*](images/cds_create_new_cluster.png)

If you select the `Launch From Template` option on the deployment method
selection dialog, a dialog opens that allows you to use a pre-defined
template for the cluster configuration.

You can also use an existing cluster or a backup as a starting point for
a new cluster.

<div class="index">

manually create cluster define cluster

newpage

</div>

## Manually Creating a Cluster

Before you can connect to a database from a client application, you must
create a server cluster. Use the `Manually Define A Cluster` button
located on the `Create a New Server Cluster` dialog to open the `Create
a New Server Cluster` dialog.

![*Specify information about the new cluster on the Step 1
tab.*](images/cds_create_new_cluster_step1.png)

Use fields on the `Create a New Server Cluster` dialog to specify
information about the new cluster:

  - Specify a name for the new server cluster in the `Cluster Name`
    field.

  - Use the drop-down listbox in the `Engine Version` field to select
    the version of the Postgres engine that you wish to use.

  - Use the drop-down listbox in the `Server Class` field to specify the
    size of each cluster node. The server class determines the size and
    type (compute power and RAM) of each node within the cluster. The
    CPU and memory resources available with the selected server class
    are displayed below the server class.
    
    You can adjust the amount of storage used by the cluster, or number
    of replicas in the cluster as your resource demands change. For
    example, you can start with a m1.small instance, and later, easily
    upgrade to a more capable c1.medium instance as your performance
    requirements dictate.
    
    The resources available to the selected server class are displayed
    below the `Server Class` field.

  - Use the drop-down listbox in the `Number of nodes` field to specify
    the number of server nodes that you wish to create. The name
    specified in the `Cluster Name` field will apply to the master node;
    each additional node will act as a replication server for the master
    node.

  - Use the `Storage GB` field to specify the initial size of the data
    space (in Gigabytes).
    
      - Check the box next to `Encrypted` to indicate that the cluster
        should be encrypted. CDS uses the aes-xts-plain (512-bit) cipher
        suite to provide an encryption environment that is both secure
        and transparent to connecting clients. When encryption is
        enabled, everything residing on the cluster is encrypted except
        for the root filesystem.
      - Check the box next to `EBS Optimized` to specify that your
        cluster should use an Amazon EBS-optimized instance and
        provisioned IOPS to guarantee a level of I/O performance.

  - The `IOPS` field is enabled for those clusters that will reside on
    an EBS-optimized instance. If applicable, use the field to specify
    the level of I/O performance that will be maintained for the cluster
    by automatic scaling. The maximum value is 30 times the size of your
    cluster; for example, if you have a 4 Gigabyte cluster, you can
    specify a maximum value of 120.
    
    Check the box next to `Perform OS and Software ? update` to specify
    that a software update should be performed whenever the cluster is
    provisioned. When you check the box next to `Perform OS and Software
    update ?`, CDS will warn you that enabling this functionality can
    significantly slow down cluster operations.

![*The software update
warning.*](images/cds_create_new_cluster_warning.png)

Updating packages may slow down cluster maintenance operations; an
update can easily take 10 minutes or more, and may initiate a reboot of
the node. This setting is persistent; if you enable software updates for
a cluster, you cannot directly disable software updates for that cluster
at a later time.

  - Enter the name of the database superuser in the `Master User` field.
  - Enter the password associated with the database superuser in the
    `Master Password` field.
  - Use the `Notification Email` field to provide the email address that
    will receive notices about changes to the cluster status.

Click the `Next` button to continue to the `Step 2` tab.

![*The Step 2 tab.*](images/create_new_server_cluster_cross_region.png)

Use the fields on the `Step 2` tab to specify additional database
information:

  - Use the `Region` drop-down listbox to the right of each node to
    select the region in which the node will reside. You can create
    cluster with nodes in multiple regions. Creating cluster nodes
    spread across regions provides additional high availability to
    cluster users against any specific region failure.
  - Use the `Auto AZ` drop-down listbox to the right of each node to
    select the availability zone in which the node will reside. For the
    selected region, available AZs will be populated automatically, you
    can select the AZ from the drop-down list. If you select Auto AZ,
    cluster will be created in one of the available AZs.
  - Use the `New Subnet` drop-down listbox to the right of each node to
    select the subnet that the node will use. Please note that if you
    manually specify a subnet, you must select a subnet that resides on
    your private network.

Click the `Next` button to continue to the `Step 3` tab.

![*Specify cluster security rules on the Step 3
tab.*](images/cds_create_a_new_cluster_stepthree.png)

Use the fields on the `Step 3` tab to define security rules that allow
access to the cluster through the load balancing port (`9999`) or
through the database server listener port (`5444` for Advanced Server or
`5432` for PostgreSQL).

Click the `Add Rule` button to open the `Add Rule` dialog and add a new
security rule.

![*Adding a security rule.*](images/cds_add_new_rule.png)

On the `Add Rule` dialog:

  - Use the `Port` drop-down listbox to select the port that the CIDR
    will use to access the cluster.
  - Use the `CIDR` field to specify the address or address range that
    will be able to access the server through the port.

When you're finished, click `Apply` to create the security rule.

To delete a rule from the list, highlight the entry and click the
`Delete Rule` button; you will be prompted to confirm that you wish to
delete the entry before the server removes the rule.

Click `Next` to continue to the `Step 4` tab.

![*Specify backup information on the Step 4
tab.*](images/cds_create_cluster_stepfour.png)

Use the fields on the `Step 4` tab to specify database backup details:

  - Use the `# of automatic backups to retain` field to specify the
    number of server backups stored. When the specified number of server
    backups is reached, CDS will delete the oldest backup to make room
    for a new backup.
    
    When point-in-time recovery (PITR) is enabled, the value specified
    in the \# of automatic backups to retain setting determines the
    duration of the PITR backup window. For example, if you specify a
    value of 7, the PITR backup window will be 7 calendar days long.

  - Use the `Backup Window` field to specify a time that it is
    convenient to backup the server; you may wish to schedule backups to
    occur when the CPU load is the lightest.

  - Check the box next to `Continuous Archiving (Point-in-Time
    Recovery)` to enable point-in-time recovery for the cluster. When
    enabled, a base backup is automatically performed that can to be
    used to restore to a specific point in time. All subsequent
    automatic scheduled backups will also support point-in-time
    recovery. Note that if you deselect this option, the cluster (and
    subsequent automatic backups) will be re-configured to not include
    support for point-in-time recovery.

Use the `Previous` button or select a tab to return to a tab to review
or update information; when you have completed the `Create a New Server`
dialog, click `Launch` to create the database cluster.

A popup dialog confirms that CDS is creating a new cluster; click the
`X` in the upper-right corner of the popup to close the popup.

![*A popup confirms that the new cluster is being
created.*](images/cds_create_new_cluster_confirmation.png)

Navigate to the `Clusters` tab to monitor the creation of the cluster.

![*New cluster is
created.*](images/created_new_server_cluster_cross_region.png)

In the above figure, the cluster consists of the master node residing in
one region (`us-west-1c`) and the replica node residing in a different
region (`eu_west-1a`).

<div class="index">

template Using a Template to Define a Cluster Launch from Template

newpage

</div>

### Using a Template to Create a Cluster

If you select the `Launch From Template` option when deploying a
cluster, a dialog that offers limited options will open when you deploy
a cluster.

![*Creating a cluster from a
template.*](images/using_a_template_to_create_cluster.png)

Use the `Template Name` drop-down listbox to select the template that
you wish to use to configure your cluster. Use the `Full Template
Details` link to display the attributes of a selected template.

> ![*Reviewing Template
> details.*](images/cds_create_server_cluster_template_details.png)

After selecting the template, use the fields on the dialog to provide
information about the new cluster:

  - Use the `Cluster Name` field to specify a name for the new cluster.
  - Use the `DB Master User` field to specify the name of the database
    superuser.
  - Use the `DB Master Password` field to specify the password
    associated with the database superuser.
  - Use the `Notification Email` field to provide the email address that
    will receive notices about changes to the cluster status.
  - Use the `Availability Zone` and `Subnet Details` drop-down listboxes
    to select the availability zone and subnet in which each node will
    reside.
      - Use the Region drop-down listbox to select the region in which
        the node will be deployed. You can create cluster with nodes in
        multiple regions.
      - Use the AZ drop-down listbox to select the availability zone in
        which the node will reside.
      - Use the Subnet drop-down listbox to select the subnet that the
        node will use.

After completing the dialog, click the `Launch` button to provision a
cluster that conforms to the template configuration.

## Cloning a Server Cluster

With a few simple steps, you can use the `Clone` icon to create a
developer sandbox that contains a duplicate of the original master node.
To clone a cluster, navigate to the `Clusters` tab and highlight the
name of the cluster you wish to clone; then, select the `Clone` icon
from the left margin.

A dialog will open that allows you to select your deployment method.

![*Selecting a Cloning option.*](images/cloning_cluster_method.png)

If you select `Manually Clone A Backup`, the following dialog opens.

![*Creating a clone of a database.*](images/cloning_cluster_manual.png)

When the `Create a clone...` dialog opens, provide values in the
requested fields:

  - Provide a name for the clone in the `Cluster Name` field.
  - The region where the clone will be created is listed in the `Clone
    Region`. The clone is created only in the region where the master
    node resides.
  - Check the box next to `Encryption` if you would like the clone to be
    created in an encrypted cluster.
  - Check the box next to `Perform OS and Software update?` if you would
    like the server to perform a software update each time the clone is
    provisioned.
  - Use the `AZ` drop-down listbox to specify the availability zone in
    which the new cluster will be created.
  - Use the `Subnet` drop-down listbox to select a subnet that will be
    used by the new cluster.
  - Use the `Server Class` drop-down listbox to specify the initial size
    of the new cluster.
  - Check the box next to `EBS Optimized` to specify that your cluster
    should use an Amazon EBS-optimized instance and provisioned IOPS to
    guarantee a level of I/O performance;
  - The `IOPS` field is enabled for those clusters that will reside on
    an EBS-optimized instance. If applicable, use the field to specify
    the level of I/O performance that will be maintained for the cluster
    by automatic scaling.
  - Check the box next to `Continuous Archiving (Point-in-Time
    Recovery)` to enable point-in-time recovery on the clone.
  - Use the `Configure Network Security Rules` section to adjust
    security rules for the cluster; select Add Rule to open the Add Rule
    dialog and specify the Port number that will be available to the
    CIDR address specified on the dialog. Highlight a rule and select
    Delete Rule to remove a rule; you will be prompted to confirm the
    deletion before the rule is removed.

When you've completed the dialog, click the `Clone` button to create the
cluster. When you clone a database, only the master node is recreated in
the new cluster; when cloning is complete, you can add replicas to your
cluster.

### Using a Template to Clone a Cluster

A clone deployed with a template will be an exact duplicate of the
original master node, but will adhere to the cluster deployment rules
described in the template by the system administrator. If you select the
`Clone From Template` option on the deployment method selection dialog,
the following dialog opens that allows you to use a pre-defined template
for the cluster configuration.

![*Creating a clone of a database.*](images/create_clone_template.png)

When the `Create clone...` dialog opens, provide values in the requested
fields:

  - Use the `Template Name` drop-down listbox to select a template that
    will be used for the new cluster; to review the cluster details
    associated with the template, click the `Full Template Details`
    link.
  - Provide a name for the clone in the `Cluster Name` field.
  - Use the `AZ` drop-down listbox to specify the availability zone in
    which the new cluster will be created.
  - Use the `Subnet` drop-down listbox to select a subnet that will be
    used by the new cluster.
  - Use the `Configure Network Security Rules` section to adjust
    security rules for the cluster; select `Add Rule` to open the `Add
    Rule` dialog and specify the `Port` number that will be available to
    the CIDR address specified on the dialog. Highlight a rule and
    select `Delete Rule` to remove a rule; you will be prompted to
    confirm the deletion before the rule is removed.

After providing the details for the cluster, click the `Clone` button to
create the clone of the cluster; select `Cancel` to exit the dialog
without creating a cluster.
