![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD4e688714logo_with_white_background.png](images/media/image2.png)

**EDB™ Ark Getting Started Guide**

Version 3.3

March 4, 2019

EDB Ark Getting Started Guide, Version 3.3  
by EnterpriseDB® Corporation  
Copyright © 2019 EnterpriseDB Corporation. All rights reserved.

EnterpriseDB Corporation, 34 Crosby Drive, Suite 201, Bedford, MA 01730,
USA  
**T** +1 781 357 3390 **F** +1 978 467 1307 **E**
<info@enterprisedb.com> **www**.enterprisedb.com

**Table of Contents**

[1 Introduction 3](#introduction)

[1.1 What’s New 5](#whats-new)

[1.2 Typographical Conventions Used in this Guide
5](#typographical-conventions-used-in-this-guide)

[2 EDB Ark - Overview 6](#_Toc2592849)

[2.1 Architecture Overview 9](#_Toc2592850)

[2.2 Using Ark as a Template Only User 12](#_Toc2592851)

[3 Accessing the Ark Console 13](#accessing-the-ark-console)

[3.1 Using Self-Registration on an Amazon Hosted Console
15](#_Toc2592853)

[4 Using the Ark Console 24](#using-the-ark-console)

[4.1 The Dashboard Tab 25](#_Toc2592855)

[4.1.1 Using the Console Switcher Feature
25](#using-the-console-switcher-feature)

[4.2 The Clusters Tab 27](#_Toc2592857)

[4.2.1 The Details Panel 31](#the-details-panel)

[4.2.2 The Monitoring Panel 36](#_Toc2592859)

[4.2.3 The Events Panel 37](#the-events-panel)

[4.3 The Backups Tab 38](#_Toc2592861)

[4.4 The User Tab 39](#the-user-tab)

[4.4.1 Updating a Password on Amazon AWS
40](#updating-a-password-on-amazon-aws)

[5 Creating a Server Cluster 41](#creating-a-server-cluster)

[5.1 Manually Creating a Cluster 42](#manually-creating-a-cluster)

[5.1.1 Using a Template to Create a Cluster
49](#using-a-template-to-create-a-cluster)

[5.2 Cloning a Server Cluster 52](#_Toc2592867)

[5.2.1 Using a Template to Clone a Cluster
55](#using-a-template-to-clone-a-cluster)

[5.3 Modifying a Cluster’s Administrative Settings 58](#_Toc2592869)

[6 Connecting an Application to an EDB Ark Cluster
61](#connecting-an-application-to-an-edb-ark-cluster)

[6.1 Using iptables Rules 63](#_Toc2592871)

[7 Managing Backups and Recovery 64](#managing-backups-and-recovery)

[7.1 Performing a Base Backup for Point-In-Time Recovery
65](#_Toc2592873)

[7.2 Reviewing Stored Backups 66](#_Toc2592874)

[7.3 Restoring a Cluster from Backup 68](#_Toc2592875)

[7.3.1 Using a Template to Restore from Backup
73](#using-a-template-to-restore-from-backup)

[8 Automatic Failover 75](#automatic-failover)

[9 Manual Scaling 77](#_Toc2592878)

[9.1 Manually Adding Replicas and Storage 78](#_Toc2592879)

[9.2 Manually Removing a Replica 80](#manually-removing-a-replica)

[9.3 Manually Changing the Server Class 82](#_Toc2592881)

[10 Automatic Scaling 84](#automatic-scaling)

[10.1 Adjusting the Automatic Scaling Thresholds 85](#_Toc2592883)

[11 Load Balancing 86](#load-balancing)

[12 Customizing Your Cluster 89](#customizing-your-cluster)

[12.1 Adding an Extension to a New Cluster 90](#_Toc2592886)

[13 Database Management 91](#database-management)

[13.1 Connecting to the Cluster 92](#_Toc2592888)

[13.1.1 Using ssh to Access a Server 93](#using-ssh-to-access-a-server)

[13.1.2 Connecting to EDB Ark with the psql Client 95](#_Toc2592890)

[13.2 Moving an Existing Database into a New Cluster
98](#moving-an-existing-database-into-a-new-cluster)

[13.2.1 Using Migration Toolkit to Migrate to an Ark Cluster
104](#using-migration-toolkit-to-migrate-to-an-ark-cluster)

[13.3 Manually Modifying Configuration Files 105](#_Toc2592893)

[13.3.1 Best Practices for Modifying Configuration Files
106](#_Toc2592894)

[13.4 Controlling the Database Server 107](#_Toc2592895)

[13.5 Updating the Server Version on the EDB Ark Cluster
108](#updating-the-server-version-on-the-edb-ark-cluster)

[13.5.1 Performing a Minor Version Upgrade
110](#performing-a-minor-version-upgrade)

[13.5.2 Performing a Major Version Upgrade 111](#_Toc2592898)

[14 Troubleshooting 112](#troubleshooting)

[14.1 Frequently Asked Questions 113](#_Toc2592900)

[14.2 The EDB Ark Email Notification System 115](#_Toc2592901)

[15 AWS Policies 116](#aws-policies)

---
title: Introduction
metaTitle: Introduction
metaDescription: description
---

EDB Ark automatically provisions PostgreSQL or EDB Postgres Advanced
Server databases in single instances, high-availability clusters, or
application development sandboxes. EDB Ark frees DBAs and application
developers from the rigors of setting up and administering robust
database environments. In minutes, EDB Ark configures a cluster of
database machines with:

  - Streaming replication
  - Connection pooling
  - Load balancing
  - Automatic failover (transaction or recovery time preferred)
  - Secure data encryption
  - Rotating user-scheduled backups
  - Point-in-time recovery
  - Elastic storage
  - Elastic scale out

EDB Ark's automatic scaling of storage resources and scale out of read
replicas when a database cluster reaches user-defined thresholds
provides unattended, around-the-clock responsiveness to unpredictable
load demands on your database infrastructure.

This document will demonstrate how to use the EDB Ark console
successfully in your cloud-based database management activities:

  - **EDB Ark - Overview** – Section 2 provides information about EDB
    Ark functionality and architecture.
  - **Accessing the Ark Console** – Section 3 provides details about
    connecting to the Ark console.
  - **Using the Ark Console** – Section 4 introduces you to the EDB Ark
    graphical user interface, and provides an overview of the
    functionality offered by the user interface controls.
  - **Creating a New Server Cluster –** Section 5 walks you through how
    to create a server cluster, and how to create a developer sandbox.
  - **Connecting an Application** – Section 6 describes how to locate
    connection information for your server nodes, so your client
    applications can access your cluster.
  - **Managing Backups and Recovery -** Section 7 describes how to
    backup or restore a database hosted on EDB Ark.
  - **Automatic Failover** – Section 8 discusses EDB Ark failover
    functionality.
  - **Manual Scaling** – Section 9 describes how to manually scale up
    your database cluster by adding replica nodes or memory.
  - **Automatic Scaling –** Section 10 discusses how to set the
    automatic scale up thresholds for your database.
  - **Load Balancing –** Section 11 discusses how to use load balancing
    to optimize client performance.
  - **Customizing Your Cluster -** Section 12 discusses some of the ways
    you can customize your Ark cluster.
  - **Database Management** – Section 13 provides information about
    performing administrative tasks on an Ark cluster.
  - **Troubleshooting –** Section 14 provides helpful troubleshooting
    resources, and detailed information about how to recover from a
    console failure.

This document provides an introduction to EDB Ark and is written to
acquaint you with the process of configuring and using the product's
core features; it is not a comprehensive guide to using EnterpriseDB
database products. Depending on your operating environment, there may be
differences in EDB Ark features and functions.

For more information about using EnterpriseDB products, please visit the
EnterpriseDB website at:

> <http://www.enterprisedb.com/documentation>

This document uses *Postgres* to mean either the PostgreSQL or EDB
Postgres Advanced Server database.

## What’s New

The following features have been added to the EDB Ark console for
release 3.3:

  - A call to the /options/roleinfos resource returns a list of AWS
    externalId/roleArn pairs; for more information, see the *EDB Ark API
    User's Guide*.
  - A call to the /options/vpcids/{*tenant*}?usePrivateIps=\[true |
    false\] resource returns information about private IP support; for
    more information, see the *EDB Ark API User's Guide.*

## Typographical Conventions Used in this Guide

Certain typographical conventions are used in this manual to clarify the
meaning and usage of various commands, statements, programs, examples,
etc. This section provides a summary of these conventions.

In the following descriptions a *term* refers to any word or group of
words that are language keywords, user-supplied values, literals, etc. A
term’s exact meaning depends upon the context in which it is used.

  - *Italic font* introduces a new term, typically, in the sentence that
    defines it for the first time.
  - Fixed-width (mono-spaced) font is used for terms that must be given
    literally such as SQL commands, specific table and column names used
    in the examples, programming language keywords, etc. For example,
    SELECT * FROM emp;
  - *Italic fixed-width font* is used for terms for which the user must
    substitute values in actual usage. For example, DELETE FROM
    *table_name*;
  - A vertical pipe | denotes a choice between the terms on either side
    of the pipe. A vertical pipe is used to separate two or more
    alternative terms within square brackets (optional choices) or
    braces (one mandatory choice).
  - Square brackets \[ \] denote that one or none of the enclosed
    term(s) may be substituted. For example, \[ a | b \], means choose
    one of “a” or “b” or neither of the two.
  - Braces {} denote that exactly one of the enclosed alternatives must
    be specified. For example, { a | b }, means exactly one of “a” or
    “b” must be specified.
  - Ellipses ... denote that the proceeding term may be repeated. For
    example, \[ a | b \] ... means that you may have the sequence, “b a
    a b a”.

---
title: EDB Ark - Overview
metaTitle: EDB Ark - Overview
metaDescription: description
---

EDB Ark simplifies the process of provisioning robust Postgres
deployments, while taking advantage of the benefits of cloud computing.
When used with Advanced Server, EDB Ark also provides a platform with
compatibility with the Oracle database, offering dramatic cost savings
and competitive advantages.

A cloud is a collection of virtual machines; each virtual machine runs a
separate copy of an operating system and an installation of Postgres
(see Figure 2.1).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD9fadb001Screen shot
2016-09-12 at 10.58.05 AM.png](images/media/image3.png)

*Figure 2.1 - Using EDB Ark in a Private Cloud.*

You can specify different combinations of CPU speed, RAM, and disk space
to suit your needs when provisioning an EDB Ark cluster. EDB Ark makes
it easy to scale up to a more capable cluster, or scale down as your
requirements change.

EDB Ark solves common challenges faced by businesses that need more
agility, velocity, and thrift in deploying and using relational,
ACID-compliant databases:

  - **Develop / Test / Deploy.** Quickly create and delete Postgres
    databases with standard configurations to support software
    development and testing activities, then deploy applications to the
    database or cluster – all at a pace dramatically quicker than
    physical provisioning.
  - **Workload Portability.** The same Postgres database trusted in the
    datacenter also runs in a cloud cluster with scalability and
    high-availability.
  - **Enterprise-class power.** Postgres was designed to solve critical
    business challenges requiring reliable, high-performance,
    ACID-compliant database processing. As the only open source database
    meeting those requirements, it offers an extremely attractive
    alternative to more expensive options.

EDB Ark includes the following functionality:

  - **Scale computing resources up and out.** EDB Ark automatically
    scales up storage capacity, and provides a simple button to scale
    your server class up when data processing loads and usage
    characteristics require a change in the underlying virtual machine
    resources.
  - **Automatic Connection Pooling and Load Balancing.** EDB Ark
    maintains a cluster of database nodes, automatically scaling out
    replicas based on increasing user demand. The integrated connection
    pooling manager increases database read performance by distributing
    requests across all cluster members.
  - **Self-Healing Failover.** EDB Ark automatically replaces downed
    database nodes, preserving the continuity and performance of the
    cluster. Users can choose to replace the master with a new master
    (preserving all committed transactions) or with a promoted replica
    (for faster recovery time).
  - **Automatic Online backup.** EDB Ark uses user-directed rotating
    backups to protect your data from loss due to mishaps
  - **Supports data encryption.** EDB Ark offers SSL data encryption
    that protects data at rest, and is transparent to connecting
    clients.
  - **Cost-saving Compatibility with the Oracle Database.** Using a
    database that is compatible with Oracle is a reliable, fast and
    cost-effective way to support Oracle applications in public and
    private clouds.
  - **Web-based interface.** EDB Ark provides easy to use
    point-and-click cluster lifecycle management from start to finish
    from your favorite web browser.
  - **Database Cloning.** EDB Ark allows you to quickly and easily
    create developer 'sandboxes' based on real production data, saving
    System Administrators setup, configuration and data load time.
  - **Professional Postgres Support.** EnterpriseDB provides support
    from Postgres experts who work with top Postgres open source
    developers.
  - **JSON Compatible API Support.** EDB Ark supports a JSON-compatible
    API.

## Architecture Overview

The Ark console is designed to help you easily create and manage
high-availability database clusters from a web browser.

### Traditionally, the expression *cluster* refers to a single instance of Postgres managing multiple databases; an EDB Ark *database* *server* *cluster* is a collection of high-availability Postgres server instances that reside in a cloud or on a traditional network.

When you create a new cluster (a group of replicated database servers),
EDB Ark initializes one or more Postgres instances (virtual machines)
according to your specifications. EDB Ark uses Postgres streaming
replication to synchronize replicas in the cluster, and pgpool-II to
implement load balancing and connection pooling among all active
instances. Figure 2.2 provides a general overview of the EDB Ark
architecture.

![C:UserssusanDesktop2.1.png](images/media/image4.png)

*Figure 2.2 - An overview of the EDB Ark architecture.*

The master node of the cluster contains a host operating system with a
running instance of Postgres, along with the load balancer. Database
modifications are automatically routed to the master node; any
modifications to the master node are subsequently propagated to each
replica using Postgres streaming replication.

EDB Ark installs Postgres on each replica node in a read-only
hot-standby role that automatically duplicates all data found on the
master node, and all changes made to that data. In hot-standby mode, the
data is available to service user queries providing read scalability to
the cluster (see Figure 2.3). In addition, any schema changes made to
the master are also replicated to the replica nodes, making development
and deployment of application changes easy and seamless without
interruption to normal operations.

![CD_load_bal_2_2](images/media/image5.png)

*Figure 2.3 - EDB Ark performs automatic load balancing.*

Replicas provide balanced user support as needed - if any instance in
the cluster goes offline, the cluster's load is re-balanced among the
remaining servers while the instance is automatically replaced.

When used in the default healing configuration, in the event of a
failure of the master node, an existing replica is used to replace the
failed master node. While the replica nodes are standing by, they are
read-only resources, load balancing client queries without a risk of
compromising data integrity.

EDB Ark automatically archives data at regular intervals; you can
specify a convenient backup window and how many backups to retain when
creating a database cluster. EDB Ark also offers backup on demand
-simply click the Backup icon to save a copy of the instance. Automatic
backups are retained according to your specifications; on-demand backups
are retained until you delete them. Each backup is a complete copy of
the cluster; you can use a backup to restore a cluster.

EDB Ark makes it easy to scale a database cluster:

  - To increase read performance, you can add read replicas to the
    cluster (manually or automatically).
  - To handle expanding data requirements you can increase the amount of
    storage available (manually or automatically).
  - To increase the RAM or CPU processing power of the cluster's
    underlying virtual machine, you can manually scale a cluster into a
    more appropriate server class.

## Using Ark as a Template Only User

Some features of the Ark console are not available to a *Template*
*Only* user. A Template Only user:

  - must specify a template when deploying, scaling, or restoring a
    cluster.
  - is restricted to the scaling policies defined in the template.
  - cannot modify a manually-defined cluster created by another user.
  - can only scale clusters to a server class that exists in a template
    that is available to the current tenant.
  - may only delete backups of template created clusters.
  - may not delete last backup of a template created cluster if the
    cluster had been deleted.

If you are a Template Only user, the Ark console displays a note in the
upper-left header when you log in (see Figure 2.4).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD95aef5d6Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 1.31.52 PM.png](images/media/image6.png)

*Figure 2.4 - Creating a new Ark cluster.*

For Template Only users, the Ark dialogs used to create a cluster, clone
a cluster, or to restore a backup offer a subset of the fields presented
on the dialogs viewed by a user that is not a Template Only user.

For detailed information about using a template to:

  - create a cluster, see Section 5.1.1.
  - restore from backup, see Section 7.3.1.
  - clone a cluster, see Section 5.2.1.

Please note: a user that is not restricted to template usage may
override template policy when modifying a cluster created with a
template.

---
title: Accessing the Ark Console
metaTitle: Accessing the Ark Console
metaDescription: description
---

If your Ark console resides on an Amazon host, the console configuration
will determine the user registration process. An administrative user can
enable or disable self-registration. If you are an administrative user
and need information about enabling or disabling self-registration,
please refer to the EDB Ark Administrative User's Guide. If you are a
non-administrative user connecting to the Ark console on an Amazon host
with self-registration enabled, see Section 3.1.

When you navigate to the URL of an installed Ark console, the console
will display a login dialog (see Figure 3.1).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD42439907Screen Shot
2018-10-17 at 8.18.21 AM.png](images/media/image7.png)

*Figure 3.1 - The Login dialog.*

Enter your user name in the Email field, and the associated password in
the Password field, and click Log In to connect to the Ark console. The
Ark console opens as shown in Figure 3.75.

![C:UserssusanDesktopArk 3.3
screenshotsgsg_dashboard.png](images/media/image8.png)

*Figure 3.2 - The Ark console.*

## Using Self-Registration on an Amazon Hosted Console

If self-registration is enabled, on your first visit to the Ark console,
you should create an Amazon role and register an Ark console user.

As part of the registration process for the Ark console, you must create
an Amazon IAM role and perform a *handshake* between the Ark console and
the Amazon management console. The handshake associates the external ID
provided by the Ark console with the Amazon role, and the Role Arn
provided by the Amazon console with the Ark user.

Please note that each time you refresh the Ark New User dialog, the
external ID displayed on the registration dialog will change; you must
have access to both the Ark console and the Amazon management console
while registering an Ark user.

To start the registration process, connect to the Amazon management
console, and navigate to the Identity and Access Management dashboard
(see Figure 3.3).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDfbab55b0Screen Shot
2017-01-11 at 1.19.14 AM.png](images/media/image9.png)

*Figure 3.3 - The Amazon IAM Dashboard.*

Navigate to the Roles dashboard, and click the Create New Role button.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD6d17e56cScreen Shot
2017-01-11 at 1.19.58 AM.png](images/media/image10.png)

*Figure 3.4 - Provide a role name.*

When the Set Role Name dialog opens (shown in Figure 3.4), specify a
name for the new role and click Next Step to specify a role type.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDe93d7cf7Screen Shot
2017-01-05 at 4.21.31 PM.png](images/media/image11.png)

*Figure 3.5 - Specify that the role allows EC2 instances to call AWS
services.*

On the Select Role Type dialog, select the AWS Service Roles radio
button (shown in Figure 3.5), and then the Select button to the right of
Amazon EC2 to continue to the Attach Policy dialog.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDe9377ce9Screen Shot
2017-01-05 at 4.22.29 PM.png](images/media/image12.png)

*Figure 3.6 – The Attach Policy dialog.*

When the Attach Policy dialog (shown in Figure 3.6) opens, do not
specify a policy; instead, click Next Step to continue to the Review
dialog.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD2063799eScreen Shot
2017-01-11 at 1.21.45 AM.png](images/media/image13.png)

*Figure 3.7 - Review the role information.*

When the Review dialog opens (as shown in Figure 3.7), review the
information displayed, and then click Create Role to instruct the AWS
management console to create the described role.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD7d96d40fScreen Shot
2017-01-11 at 1.22.23 AM.png](images/media/image14.png)

*Figure 3.8 - The new role is displayed on the Roles page.*

The role will be displayed in the role list on the Amazon IAM Roles page
(see Figure 3.8). The Summary tab will display a Role ARN, but the ARN
will not be enabled until the security policy and trust policy are
updated.

After completing the Create Role wizard, you must modify the inline
policy and trust relationship (defined by the security policy) to allow
Ark to use the role. Highlight the role name; then navigate to the
Permissions tab and open the Inline Policies menu. Select click here to
add a new policy (see Figure 3.9).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDe9be7df3Screen Shot
2017-01-05 at 4.25.34 PM.png](images/media/image15.png)

*Figure 3.9 - The Inline Policies menu.*

When the Set Permissions dialog opens, select the Custom Policy radio
button, and then click the Select button (see Figure 3.10).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDa4cae180Screen Shot
2017-01-05 at 4.25.59 PM.png](images/media/image16.png)

*Figure 3.10 - Add a Custom Policy.*

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD7d1fd594Screen Shot
2017-01-11 at 1.26.31 AM.png](images/media/image17.png)

*Figure 3.11 - Provide the policy name and contents.*

Use the fields on the Set Permissions dialog (Figure 3.11) to define the
security policy:

  - Provide a name for the security policy in the Policy Name field.
  - Copy the security policy text into the Policy Document field. The
    security policy required by Ark is available in Section 15, *AWS
    Resources*.

After providing security policy information, click Apply Policy to
return to the Role information page. Then, select the Edit Trust
Relationship button (located in the Trust Relationships section) to
display the Policy Document (see Figure 3.12).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD7f94d220Screen Shot
2017-01-11 at 1.33.11 AM.png](images/media/image18.png)

*Figure 3.12 - The Policy Document.*

Replace the displayed content of the policy document with the content of
the file available in Section 15, *AWS Resources*.

EDB-PPCD-CONSOLE is a placeholder within the trust policy. You must
replace the placeholder with the External ID provided on the Step 2 tab
of the Ark console New User Registration dialog.

To retrieve the External ID, open another browser window and navigate to
the Log In page of your Ark console. Click the Register button to open
the New User Registration dialog (shown in Figure 3.13).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD838384d7Screen Shot
2018-12-12 at 9.52.14 AM.png](images/media/image19.png)

*Figure 3.13 - The New User Registration dialog.*

Enter user information in the User Details box located on the Step 1
tab:

  - Enter your first and last names in the First Name and Last Name
    fields.
  - Enter a password that will be associated with the user account, and
    confirm the password in the Password and Verify Password fields.
  - Provide an email address in the Email field; please note that the
    email address is used as the Login identity for the user.
  - Use the drop-down listbox in the Cloud Provider field to select the
    host on which the cloud will reside.
  - Enter the name of the company with which you are associated in the
    Company Name field.

When you've completed Step 1, click Next to access the Step 2 tab.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD7f17d3a8Screen Shot
2017-01-11 at 1.36.26 AM.png](images/media/image20.png)

*Figure 3.14 - The Summary tab of the Role detail panel.*

The Step 2 tab of the New User Registration dialog will display a random
External ID number. Copy the External ID from the Step 2 dialog into the
trust policy, replacing EDB-PPCD-CONSOLE. Please note that you must
enclose the External ID in double-quotes ("). Click the Update Trust
Policy button to save your edits and exit the dialog.

Your Amazon IAM role ARN is displayed on the IAM Roles detail panel of
the Amazon management console. Highlight a role name to display the
assigned value on the Summary page. (as shown in Figure 3.14).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD9181b2b9Screen Shot
2018-12-12 at 9.53.24 AM.png](images/media/image21.png)

*Figure 3.15 - Registering a user on an Amazon EC2 cloud.*

Enter your Amazon IAM role ARN in the Role Arn field on the Step 2
dialog, and click Finish to complete the registration (see Figure 3.15).
Select Cancel to exit without completing the registration.

After completing the registration, you can use the Login/Register dialog
(shown in Figure 3.16) to access the Ark console.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD42439907Screen Shot
2018-10-17 at 8.18.21 AM.png](images/media/image7.png)

*Figure 3.16 - The Login/Register dialog.*

Enter the registered email address in the Username field, and the
associated password in the Password field, and click Log In to connect
to the Ark console.

---
title: Using the Ark Console
metaTitle: Using the Ark Console
metaDescription: description
---

The Ark console has four browser tabs that help you to manage clusters
that reside in an AWS or Azure cloud:

  - The Dashboard tab provides an overview of the current resources in
    use, a quick-start Launch DB Cluster button, and (optionally), links
    to documentation and tutorials.
  - The Clusters tab provides a management and information resources for
    your clusters.
  - The Backups tab provides a list of the existing snapshots of your
    Ark clusters and buttons that allow you to create or delete a
    snapshot.
  - The User tab provides a graphical management interface that you can
    use to review and manage your user account information.

Please note that some features of the Ark console are not available to a
Template Only user.

## The Dashboard Tab

The Dashboard tab (shown in Figure 4.1) provides an overview of the EDB
Ark service status, resources, useful information links and a
quick-start Launch DB Cluster button.

![C:UserssusanDesktopArk 3.3
screenshotsgsg_dashboard.png](images/media/image8.png)

*Figure 4.1 - The Dashboard tab.*

To launch a cluster from the Dashboard tab, use the Tenant drop-down
listbox to select the tenant in which the cluster will be created. Then,
use the Launch DB Cluster button located in the Getting Started panel to
open the Create New Cluster dialog and define the cluster attributes.
For more information about defining a cluster, see Section 5.

The Resources panel contains an overview of the activity shown on the
other tabs of the Ark console; click a link to navigate to the listed
resource. For example, click the Events link to navigate to the Clusters
tab to review the event logs.

The Hot Topics panel provides a link to the EDB Ark website.

Use the links in the EDB Ark Tutorials and Documentation section to
access EDB Ark and Postgres documentation.

#### Using the Console Switcher Feature

The console switcher provides convenient access to a list of
user-defined console names and their associated addresses. When you
select a name from the Consoles drop-down listbox (see Figure 4.2), the
Ark console opens a browser tab and navigates to the address associated
with the shortcut name.

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 2.12.38
PM.png](images/media/image22.png)

*Figure 4.2 – The Consoles drop-down.*

An Ark administrative user can use management features located on the
Admin tab of the administrative console to add consoles to the list, or
remove consoles from the list. For more information about populating the
console switcher, please see the *EDB Ark Administrative User's Guide*.

## The Clusters Tab

Use the Clusters tab (shown in Figure 4.3) to create, monitor and manage
active clusters that reside in the cluster.

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 5.43.22
PM.png](images/media/image23.png)

*Figure 4.3 - The Clusters tab.*

Indicators in the columns to the right of a cluster name display the
current health of the cluster. Click on a column name to sort the
contents of the column; click a second time to reverse the sort-order.

  - The VM column displays the state of the virtual machine on which the
    cluster resides.
  - The HA column displays the state of the high-availability cluster.
  - The DB column displays the state of the database server.
  - The UP column displays the current status of the packages installed
    on the cluster. Periodically, the cluster manager performs a check
    to see if the packages are up to date.

Status indicators provide quick visual feedback about each feature:

| Indicator             | Description                                           |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| A green checkmark     | indicates that an object is healthy                   |
| A yellow alert symbol | calls attention to an object that requires processing |
| A red error symbol    | signifies that an object is not available             |
| A question mark       | indicates that the state of the resource is unknown   |

Use the icons along the left side of the Clusters tab to create new
clusters or manage existing clusters:

> ![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 5.46.31
> PM.png](images/media/image24.png)Use the Add Cluster icon to create a
> new Postgres cluster. For more information, see Section 5.1.
> 
> ![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 5.47.59
> PM.png](images/media/image25.png)Select the Scale Up icon to manually
> add one or more replicas to the current cluster, or add additional
> storage to the current cluster servers. For information about manually
> adding replica servers or storage, see Section 9.
> 
> ![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 5.48.52
> PM.png](images/media/image26.png)Use the Scale Down icon to remove one
> or more specified replicas from the cluster. For more information
> about using the Scale Down icon, see Section 9.2.
> 
> ![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 5.49.56
> PM.png](images/media/image27.png)Select the Backup icon to take a
> backup of the highlighted cluster (a single backup of the cluster
> data, and a backup of the cluster configuration files). For more
> information, see Section 7.
> 
> ![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 5.50.56
> PM.png](images/media/image28.png)Select the Clone icon to copy the
> master node of the selected database into a *clone* of the original
> master node. Use this feature to create a developer sandbox that is an
> exact duplicate of a working server; for more information about
> creating a clone, see Section 5.2.
> 
> When you clone a database, only the master node is recreated in the
> new cluster. For information about manually adding replica servers to
> the new cluster, see Section 9, Manual Scaling.
> 
> ![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 5.51.50
> PM.png](images/media/image29.png)You can use the Upgrade icon to open
> a dialog that allows you to perform a yum update (keeping the same
> server version) or perform an upgrade to a later server version. After
> performing an update, the cluster nodes will be rebooted (initiating
> any kernel updates required). Please note that a software update can
> take some time to complete.
> 
> For information about configuring your cluster for automatic updates,
> see Section 13.5.
> 
> ![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 5.54.25
> PM.png](images/media/image30.png)Use the Scale Machine Type icon to
> change the size of the virtual machine for the selected cluster. EDB
> Ark will copy the cluster into a new cluster of a different server
> class (i.e. RAM and CPU), and optionally re-assign the IP address of
> the existing cluster to the new cluster. For more information about
> using the Scale Machine Type dialog, see Section 9.
> 
> ![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 5.55.48
> PM.png](images/media/image31.png)Use the Download SSH Key icon to
> download the SSH key associated with the selected cluster. Each
> cluster has a unique key that you can use to access nodes in that
> cluster. When you download a key, a popup will inform you of the steps
> required to connect to your cluster with SSH (see Figure 4.4).
> 
> ![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDc84158a4Screen Shot
> 2018-12-11 at 5.32.11 PM.png](images/media/image32.png)
> 
> *Figure 4.4 – Accessing Your Cluster Instance.*
> 
> The popup displays the tenant name, the cluster name, the name that
> you should use when connecting to the cluster, and the IP address to
> which you should connect. For more information about using SSH to
> connect to a cluster, see Section 13.1.1.
> 
> Please note: before downloading the SSH key, you should disable pop-up
> blocker software from restricting pop-ups from the URL/s used by the
> Ark console or Ark clusters.
> 
> ![C:UserssusanDesktopedit.png](images/media/image34.png) Use the
> Cluster Administrative Settings icon to access a popup dialog that
> allows you to view or modify the ownership and notification email
> address of the currently selected cluster. For more information about
> the Administrative Settings dialog, see Section 5.3.
> 
> ![C:UserssusanDesktopedit.png](images/media/image34.png) Use the
> Delete Cluster icon to delete the currently selected cluster. A popup
> dialog will ask you to confirm your decision to terminate a cluster;
> once terminated, a cluster may only be restored from a backup.
> 
> By default, the box next to Release elastic IP address is checked.
> Deselect this option if you wish to retain the IP address for re-use
> with other clusters. If you release the IP address, it will be made
> available for use by other clusters.
> 
> When you terminate an active cluster, backups are not deleted. Backups
> (including user data) are retained until they are selected and deleted
> from the Backups tab.

The panels located at the bottom of the Clusters tab provide easy access
to helpful statistical usage and activity information about the
currently selected cluster. Three navigation bars control the display;
click a panel name on the navigation bar to access one of the following
panels:

  - Select the [Details](#the-details-panel) bar to view information
    about the state of the selected cluster.
  - Select the [Monitoring](#_The_Monitoring_Panel) bar to view usage
    statistics for the selected cluster.
  - Select the [Events](#the-events-panel) bar to review event logs
    describing activities on the selected cluster.
    2.  **The Details Panel**

Click the Details navigation bar to open the Details panel (shown in
Figure 4.5).

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 6.02.39
PM.png](images/media/image35.png)

*Figure 4.5 - The Details panel on the Clusters tab.*

The left pane of the Details panel displays information about the
currently selected cluster:

  - The name of the cluster
  - The date and time that the cluster was created
  - The name of the database superuser for the cluster
  - The name of the cluster owner
  - The email address to which notifications about the cluster will be
    sent
  - The cluster size
  - If the cluster is encrypted
  - If applicable, the IOPS value for the cluster
  - The region in which the cluster resides
  - The virtual network or VPC ID in which the cluster resides
  - The cluster's hardware type or Server Class
  - The engine type and version that resides on the server
  - If a template was used, the template name
  - If the cluster is configured to update when provisioned

You can use controls on the Details panel to specify:

  - If load balancer health should be monitored
  - If database health should be monitored
  - Failover preferences for the cluster
  - Auto-scaling thresholds for the cluster
  - Backup preferences for the cluster
  - If continuous archiving should be enabled for the cluster

When you modify the settings on the Details panel, EDB Ark displays a
New value saved notice, confirming that the change has been saved.

Please note: If a template was used to specify the configuration details
for the cluster, the template may prohibit access to auto-scaling or
manual scaling functionality.

**Monitoring Load Balancer Health**

By default, EDB Ark monitors the health of the load balancer to ensure
that service is not interrupted. If the load balancer (pgpool) should
fail while monitoring is enabled, PgPool will be automatically
restarted. If the load balancer cannot be automatically restarted, EDB
Ark will display a warning sign in the DB column next to the cluster
name, and send a notification email to the cluster user.

Deselect the Monitor Load Balancer Health checkbox to indicate that you
do not wish for load balancer health to be monitored and automatically
restarted if an interruption in service is detected.

**Monitoring Database Health**

By default, the Monitor Database Health checkbox is checked, indicating
that EDB Ark is monitoring the health of the database to ensure that
service is not interrupted. If the state of the database server changes
to any state other than running while Monitor Database Health is
checked, Ark will attempt to restart the database.

If the database restart fails, Ark will restore the configuration files
to their original settings and attempt a restart. If the server fails to
restart after restoring the configuration, Ark will failover to a new
instance.

Uncheck the Monitor Database Health checkbox to instruct Ark to not
automatically restart the database if the database stops.

**Selecting a Cluster Healing Mode**

Use the Cluster healing mode radio buttons to specify the type of
failover that should be employed:

  - Select the Replace failed master with a new master radio button to
    specify that the cluster manager should create a new master to
    replace a failed master node.

<!-- end list -->

  - Select the Replace failed master with existing replica radio button
    to specify that the cluster manager should promote a replica node to
    be the new master node for the cluster.

Please note that replacing a failed master node with a new master node
can take a bit longer than promoting a replica node to the role of
master, but it does have the advantage of guaranteeing that no committed
data will be lost. If recovery time for your cluster is more important
than preserving any non-replicated transactions, then select Replace
failed master with existing replica as the healing mode.

**Adjusting Auto-Scaling Thresholds**

Use the Auto-Scaling Thresholds controls on the Details panel to adjust
the threshold at which EDB Ark automatically scales up cluster
resources. For more information about using the controls, see Section
10.1, *Adjusting the Automatic Scaling Thresholds*.

**Modifying Backup Settings**

Use the fields in the Backup Settings box to change your backup
preferences for the selected cluster:

  - Use the Backup Window drop-down listbox to select an optimal time to
    process cluster backups; specify a time when the number of clients
    accessing the database is minimal.
  - Use the Backup Retention field to specify the number of backups that
    should be stored for the selected cluster.
  - Select the checkbox next to Continuous Archiving (Point-in-Time
    Recovery) to enable point-in-time recovery for a cluster. When
    enabled, a base backup is automatically performed that can to be
    used to restore to a specific point in time. All subsequent
    automatic scheduled backups will also support point-in-time
    recovery. Note that if you deselect this option, the cluster (and
    subsequent automatic backups) will be re-configured to not include
    support for point-in-time recovery.

**Reviewing Cluster Connection and Status Information**

The DNSNAME table (located on the right side of the Details panel)
contains a status overview and connection information for the selected
cluster. If you have created replicas, the secondary server nodes are
listed below the master node in the tree control; expand the tree
control to view the status of the replication nodes.

Status indicators on the Clusters tab provide quick visual feedback
about the status of your cluster:

| Indicator             | Description                                           |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| A green checkmark     | indicates that an object is healthy                   |
| A yellow alert symbol | calls attention to an object that requires processing |
| A red error symbol    | signifies that an object is not available             |
| A question mark       | indicates that the state of the resource is unknown   |

Use the drop-down tab in the upper-right corner of the DNSNAME pane to
select the columns that will be displayed in the panel:

  - The AZ column displays the Availability Zone in which the cluster
    resides.
  - The SUBNET column displays the subnet ID on which the cluster
    resides.
  - The LBPORT column displays the port number to which a client
    application should connect to utilize load balancing.
  - The DBPORT column displays the default listener port for the
    Advanced Server or PostgreSQL server.
  - The CXN column displays the current number of connections to the
    node.
  - The VM column displays the state of the virtual machine on which the
    cluster resides.
  - The HA column displays the state of the high-availability cluster.
  - The DB column displays the state of the database server.
  - The UP column displays the current status of the packages installed
    on the cluster. Periodically, the cluster manager performs a check
    to see if the packages are up to date. If an update becomes
    available, the UP column will display a yellow alert symbol if the
    update is non-critical, or a red error symbol if the update is a
    critical (security) alert.

#### The Monitoring Panel

The Monitoring panel displays graphs that allow you to review
statistical usage information about the amount of storage and the CPU
load for the selected cluster (see Figure *4.6*).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD8537847cScreen Shot
2018-12-11 at 6.04.38 PM.png](images/media/image36.png)

*Figure 4.6 - The Monitoring panel displays usage information.*

Use the Time Range drop-down listbox to modify the time period that the
charted information on the Monitoring panel spans.

The graphs on the Monitoring panel display resource usage information:

  - The Data Space chart displays the amount of allocated data space
    used by the selected cluster. The red line denotes the threshold
    specified by the Data Space Threshold slider on the Details panel
    (the threshold at which the cluster will be scaled-up). The blue
    line indicates the amount of the data space that is currently in
    use.
  - The Connections chart displays a graph of the number of connections
    to the cluster during the selected time range. The red line denotes
    the threshold specified by the Connections slider on the Details
    panel.
  - The Load chart displays the processing load placed on the CPU by
    connecting clients. The value displayed is the actual load average
    as read from the program, /proc/loadavg. The chart shows the number
    of jobs in the run queue or waiting for disk I/O, averaged over 15
    minute periods.
    4.  **The Events Panel**

The Events panel (shown in Figure 4.7) displays an event log containing
a history of selected events for the connected user.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDcac81f9aScreen Shot
2018-12-11 at 6.05.07 PM.png](images/media/image37.png)

*Figure 4.7 - The Events panel displays server activity.*

Highlight a cluster name to display only events for that cluster; if you
do not select a cluster, the Events panel will display the collected
events for the connected user.

  - Click a column heading to sort the logged activity by the selected
    column; click again to reverse the sort order.
  - Use a mouse to select multiple rows from the event log for copy and
    paste operations.

## The Backups Tab

Use the Backups tab (shown in Figure 4.8) to manage cluster backups; the
tab displays a list of the available backups.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDdac22fe4Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 6.05.38 PM.png](images/media/image38.png)

*Figure 4.8 - The Backups tab of the Ark console.*

A backup captures and stores the status and condition of a cluster at a
specific point-in-time. Click a column heading to sort the column
contents; click again to reverse the sort order.

If the comment in the NOTES column for a specific cluster includes PITR,
point in time recovery is enabled on the cluster. When point in time
recovery is enabled, the backup can be used to restore your cluster to a
state at any given time since the backup was taken.

Use the icons on the left side of the Backups tab to restore or delete
backups:

> ![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 6.06.54
> PM.png](images/media/image39.png)Highlight a backup in the list, and
> click the Recover Backup icon to open a dialog that allows you to
> restore a cluster from the selected backup. Specify a name for the
> cluster, and click the Recover button to continue. A popup confirms
> that the cluster is being restored; close the popup and navigate to
> the Clusters tab to monitor the restoration process.
> 
> ![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 6.07.09
> PM.png](images/media/image40.png)Highlight one or more backups in the
> list and click the Delete Backup icon to delete the selected backups.
> A popup will ask you to confirm that you wish to delete the selected
> backups before the backups are actually deleted.

## The User Tab

Fields on the User tab (shown in Figure 4.9) allow you to view or modify
information about the current user.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD9536b41fScreen Shot
2018-12-12 at 8.13.00 AM.png](images/media/image41.png)

*Figure 4.9 - The User tab of the Ark console.*

To change the First Name, Last Name, or Company Name of the registered
user, modify the corresponding fields and click the Apply Changes
button. A popup will confirm that the changes have been applied.

The Notification Email field on the User tab displays the default email
address that will be used for cluster notifications unless an alternate
address is provided. You can optionally:

  - provide an alternate email address when a cluster is created (on the
    Create a new Server Cluster dialog).
  - modify a cluster’s notification email address on the Administrative
    Settings dialog.

To change the default notification email address, enter a new address in
the Notification Email field, and click the Apply Changes button. A
popup dialog will open, prompting you to enter your password to confirm
the change of address. Enter your password, and click Confirm to modify
the address, or click Cancel to exit the popup without applying the
change.

If you elect to change the notification email address, EDB Ark will send
a confirmation email to both the old notification address and the new
notification address.

#### Updating a Password on Amazon AWS

If your Ark console is deployed on Amazon AWS, the User tab displays the
Amazon Role ARN associated with your Ark user account, and provides an
option that allows you to modify your password. To modify your password,
click the Change Password button; the Change Password dialog opens as
shown in Figure 4.10.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD55e5bd25Screen Shot
2018-12-12 at 8.14.58 AM.png](images/media/image42.png)

*Figure 4.10 – The Change Password dialog.*

To modify your password:

  - Provide your current password in the Current Password field.
  - Enter the new password in the New Password field.
  - Confirm the new password in the Confirm New Password field.

Click the Confirm button to change the password to the new value; click
Cancel to exit the dialog without modifying the password.

When you change your password, a popup will confirm that the password
has been changed and Ark will send an email to the notification email
address associated with the account.

---
title: Creating a Server Cluster
metaTitle: Creating a Server Cluster
metaDescription: description
---

To create a server cluster, you can:

  - Use the Launch DB Cluster button (located on the Dashboard Tab) to
    open the Create a new Server Cluster dialog and define a new
    cluster.
  - Click the New Server button (located on the Clusters tab) to open
    the Create a new Server Cluster dialog and define a new cluster.

If you are not a Template Only user, the Create a New Server Cluster
dialog will prompt you to select a deployment option (see Figure 5.1).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDca5856c7Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 2.18.46 PM.png](images/media/image43.png)

*Figure 5.1 – Specify your server launch preferences.*

If you are a Template Only user or select the Launch From Template
option on the deployment method selection dialog, a dialog opens that
allows you to use a pre-defined template for the cluster configuration;
for detailed information about using a template to create a cluster, see
Section 5.1.1.

If you select Manually Define A Cluster, the dialog shown in Figure 5.2
opens. For detailed information about manually defining a cluster, see
Section 5.1.

You can also use an existing cluster or a backup as a starting point for
a new cluster. For detailed information about cloning a new server
cluster from an existing cluster, see Section 5.2. For information about
restoring a backup to create a new cluster, see Section 7.3.

## Manually Creating a Cluster

Before you can connect to Postgres from a client application, you must
create a server cluster. Use the Launch DB Instance button (located in
the upper left panel of the Dashboard Tab) or click the Add Server
button on the Clusters tab to open the Create a New Server Cluster
dialog, as shown in Figure 5.2.

Please note: not all fields and tabs documented in the following
sections are applicable for all console host types.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD852fcc95Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 2.19.20 PM.png](images/media/image44.png)

*Figure 5.2 - Specify information about the new cluster on the Step 1
tab.*

Use fields on the Create a New Server Cluster dialog to specify
information about the new cluster:

  - Specify a name for the new server cluster in the Cluster Name field.

<!-- end list -->

  - Use the drop-down listbox in the Engine Version field to select the
    version of the Postgres engine that you wish to use.
  - Use the drop-down listbox in the Server Class field to specify the
    size of each cluster node. The server class determines the size and
    type (compute power and RAM) of each node within the cluster.

<!-- end list -->

  - If your cluster resides on an Amazon host, you can check the box to
    the left of Use Private IP addresses to display addresses that are
    in your private network in the VPC field.
  - If your cluster resides on an Amazon host, use the drop-down listbox
    in the VPC field to specify the identity of the network in which the
    cluster should reside.
  - Use the drop-down listbox in the Number of nodes field to specify
    the number of server nodes that you wish to create. The name
    specified in the Cluster Name field will apply to the master node;
    each additional node will act as a replication server for the master
    node.
  - Use the Storage GB field to specify the initial size of the data
    space (in Gigabytes).
  - Check the box next to Encrypted to indicate that the cluster should
    be encrypted. EDB Ark uses the aes-xts-plain (512-bit) cipher suite
    to provide an encryption environment that is both secure and
    transparent to connecting clients. When encryption is enabled,
    everything residing on the cluster is encrypted except for the root
    filesystem.
  - If your cluster resides on an AWS host, check the box next to EBS
    Optimized to specify that your cluster should use an Amazon
    EBS-optimized instance and provisioned IOPS to guarantee a level of
    I/O performance.

<!-- end list -->

  - Check the box next to Perform OS and Software update? to instruct
    EDB Ark to perform a yum update whenever the cluster is provisioned;
    this option is disabled for clusters that use statically provisioned
    servers. The yum update command updates all of the outdated packages
    that reside on the cluster. The update will occur when a cluster is
    scaled up, scaled down, or during a failover.

<!-- end list -->

  - Enter the name of the database superuser in the Master User field.
  - Enter the password associated with the database superuser in the
    Master Password field.
  - Use the Notification Email field to provide the email address that
    will receive notices about changes to the cluster status.

If applicable on your host system, click the Next button to continue to
the Step 2 tab (shown in Figure 5.3).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDd05b78b7Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 2.38.52 PM.png](images/media/image45.png)

*Figure 5.3 - The Step 2 tab.*

Use the fields on the Step 2 tab to specify additional database
information:

  - Use the AVAILABILITY ZONE drop-down listbox to the right of each
    node to select the availability zone in which the node will reside.
  - Use the SUBNET drop-down listbox to the right of each node to select
    the subnet that the node will use. Please note that if you manually
    specify a subnet, you must select a subnet that resides on your
    private network.

Click the Next button to continue to the Step 3 tab (shown in Figure
5.4).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD8fa4d3b0Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 2.40.35 PM.png](images/media/image46.png)

*Figure 5.4 - Specify cluster security rules on the Step 3 tab.*

Use the fields on the Step 3 tab to define security rules that allow
access to the cluster. By default, the load balancer port is open to any
IP address for client connections; you may choose to delete the rule,
and specify a more restrictive IP range.

To delete a rule from the list, highlight the entry and click the Delete
Rule button; you will be prompted to confirm that you wish to delete the
entry before the server removes the rule.

Click the Add Rule button to open the Add Rule dialog (see Figure 5.5)
and provide access to a port.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDc25a4e5cScreen Shot
2018-12-11 at 2.42.23 PM.png](images/media/image47.png)

*Figure 5.5 - Adding a security rule.*

On the Add Rule dialog:

  - Use the Port drop-down listbox to select the port that can be
    accessed from the specified CIDR. A non-administrative user can
    allow access to ports:

<!-- end list -->

  - Use the CIDR field to specify the address (or address range) that
    will be allowed access to the server through the selected port.

When you're finished, click Apply to create the security rule.

Then, click Next to continue to the Step 4 tab (see Figure 5.6).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDd0db7996Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 2.43.09 PM.png](images/media/image48.png)

*Figure 5.6 - Specify backup information on the Step 4 tab.*

Use the fields on the Step 4 tab to specify additional database
information:

  - Use the \# of automatic backups to retain field to specify the
    number of server backups stored. When the specified number of server
    backups is reached, EDB Ark will delete the oldest backup to make
    room for a new backup.

<!-- end list -->

  - Use the Backup Window field to specify a time that it is convenient
    to backup the server (you may wish to schedule backups to occur when
    the CPU load is the lightest).
  - Check the box next to Continuous Archiving (Point-in-Time Recovery)
    to enable point-in-time recovery for the cluster. When enabled, a
    base backup is automatically performed that can to be used to
    restore to a specific point in time. All subsequent automatic
    scheduled backups will also support point-in-time recovery. Note
    that if you deselect this option, the cluster (and subsequent
    automatic backups) will be re-configured to not include support for
    point-in-time recovery.

Use the Previous button or select a tab to return to a tab to review or
update information; when you have completed the Create a New Server
dialog, click Launch to create the database cluster.

A popup dialog confirms that EDB Ark is creating a new cluster (see
Figure 5.7); click the X in the upper-right corner of the popup to close
the popup.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD9fade36aScreen Shot
2018-12-11 at 2.44.08 PM.png](images/media/image49.png)

*Figure 5.7 - A popup confirms that the new cluster is being created.*

Navigate to the Clusters tab of the Ark console to monitor the creation
of the cluster.

#### Using a Template to Create a Cluster

If you select the Launch From Template option when deploying a cluster
or are a Template Only user, a dialog that offers limited options will
open when you deploy a cluster (see Figure 5.8).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDd05a78b9Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 2.47.37 PM.png](images/media/image50.png)

*Figure 5.8 - Creating a cluster from a template.*

Use the Template Name drop-down listbox to select the template that you
wish to use to configure your cluster. After selecting the template, use
the fields on the dialog to provide information about the new cluster:

  - Use the Template Name drop-down listbox to select a template.

After selecting the template that you wish to use, use the fields on the
Create a New Server Cluster dialog to finish defining your cluster:

  - Use the Cluster Name field to specify a name for the new cluster.
  - Use the DB Master User field to specify the name of the database
    superuser.
  - Use the DB Master Password field to specify the password associated
    with the database superuser.
  - Use the Notification Email field to provide the email address that
    will receive notices about changes to the cluster status.
  - If applicable, use the AVAILABILITY ZONE drop-down listbox to the
    right of each node to select the availability zone in which the node
    will reside.
  - If applicable, use the SUBNET drop-down listbox to the right of each
    node to select the subnet that the node will use.
  - If applicable, use the Add Rule button to open the Add Rule dialog
    and define one or more security rules for the cluster.

After completing the Launch From Template dialog, click the Launch
button to provision a cluster that conforms to the cluster
configuration.

## Cloning a Server Cluster

With a few simple steps, you can create a developer sandbox that
contains a duplicate of the original master node.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDd2517e0dScreen Shot
2018-12-11 at 3.14.09 PM.png](images/media/image52.png)To clone a
cluster, navigate to the Clusters tab and highlight the name of the
cluster you wish to clone; then, click the Clone icon from the left
margin. If you are not a Template Only user, a dialog will open that
allows you to select your deployment method (see Figure 5.10).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDc0534043Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 3.14.46 PM.png](images/media/image53.png)

*Figure 5.10 - Selecting a Cloning option.*

If you are a Template Only user or select the Clone From Template option
on the deployment method selection dialog, a dialog opens that allows
you to use a pre-defined template for the cluster configuration; for
detailed information about using a template to clone a cluster, see
Section 5.2.1.

If you select Manually Clone A Backup, the dialog shown in Figure 5.11
opens.

> ![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDc2584657Screen Shot
> 2018-12-11 at 3.16.08 PM.png](images/media/image54.png)

*Figure 5.11 - Creating a clone of a database.*

When the Create clone... dialog opens, provide values in the requested
fields:

  - Provide a name for the new cluster in the Cluster Name field.
  - Check the box next to Encryption if you would like the clone to be
    created in an encrypted cluster.
  - Check the box next to Perform OS and Software update? if you would
    like the server to perform a software update each time the clone is
    provisioned. Please note: this option is disabled if the database
    engine is statically provisioned.
  - If your cluster resides on an Amazon host, use the VPC drop-down
    list box to specify a network name.
  - Use the Availability Zone drop-down listbox to specify the
    availability zone in which the new cluster will be created.
  - Use the Subnet drop-down listbox to select a subnet that will be
    used by the new cluster.
  - Use the Server Class drop-down listbox to specify the initial size
    of the new cluster.
  - If your cluster resides on an AWS host, check the box next to EBS
    Optimized to specify that your cluster should use an Amazon
    EBS-optimized instance and provisioned IOPS to guarantee a level of
    I/O performance;
  - The IOPS field is enabled for those clusters that will reside on an
    EBS-optimized instance. If applicable, use the field to specify the
    level of I/O performance that will be maintained for the cluster by
    automatic scaling.
  - Check the box next to Continuous Archiving (Point-in-Time Recovery)
    to enable point-in-time recovery on the clone.

When you've completed the dialog, click the Clone button to create the
sandbox.

When you clone a database, only the master node is recreated in the new
cluster; for information about manually adding replica servers to the
new cluster, see Section 9, *Manual Scaling*.

#### Using a Template to Clone a Cluster

A clone deployed with a template will be an exact duplicate of the
original master node, but will adhere to the cluster deployment rules
described in the template by the system administrator. If you are a
Template Only user, you will be required to use a template when cloning
a cluster. A non-Template Only user may find it easier (especially when
cloning a number of clusters) to use a template to define the properties
that are common to multiple deployments.

> ![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD0ebc58daScreen Shot
> 2018-12-11 at 3.39.45 PM.png](images/media/image55.png)

*Figure 5.12 - Creating a clone of a database.*

When the Create clone... dialog opens (see Figure 5.12), provide values
in the requested fields:

  - Use the Template Name drop-down listbox to select a template that
    will be used for the new cluster; to review the cluster details
    associated with the template, click the Full Template Details link.
  - Provide a name for the clone in the Cluster Name field.
  - If applicable, use the Availability Zone drop-down listbox to
    specify the availability zone in which the new cluster will be
    created.
  - If applicable, use the Subnet drop-down listbox to select a subnet
    that will be used by the new cluster.

Use the fields in the Configure Network Security Rules section to define
security rules that allow access to the cluster. By default, the load
balancer port is open to any IP address for client connections; you may
choose to delete the rule, and specify a more restrictive IP range.

To delete a rule from the list, highlight the rule and click the Delete
Rule button; you will be prompted to confirm that you wish to delete the
entry before the server removes the rule.

Click the Add Rule button to open the Add Rule dialog (see Figure 5.5)
and provide access to a port.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDc25a4e5cScreen Shot
2018-12-11 at 2.42.23 PM.png](images/media/image47.png)

*Figure 5.5 - Adding a security rule.*

On the Add Rule dialog:

  - Use the Port drop-down listbox to select the port that can be
    accessed from the specified CIDR. A non-administrative user can
    allow access to ports:

<!-- end list -->

  - Use the CIDR field to specify the address (or address range) that
    will be allowed access to the server through the selected port.

When you're finished, click Apply to create the security rule.

After providing the details for the cluster, click the Clone button to
create the clone of the cluster; select Cancel to exit the dialog
without creating a cluster.

## Modifying a Cluster’s Administrative Settings

Fields on the Administrative Settings dialog display the current owner
and the email address to which notification emails about the state of
the cluster are sent.

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 3.51.16
PM.png](images/media/image56.png)To modify the owner of a cluster or the
email address associated with a cluster, highlight the name of a cluster
on the Clusters tab, and click the Administrative Settings icon. The
dialog shown in Figure 5.13 opens.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD1c3e6f14Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 3.42.02 PM.png](images/media/image57.png)

*Figure 5.13 – The Administrative Settings dialog.*

Use the fields on the dialog to modify the administrative settings for
the cluster:

  - Use the drop-down listbox in the Owner field to select a new cluster
    owner. Please note that only those users with permissions to access
    the tenant on which the cluster resides are included in the list.
  - Use the Notification Email field to specify the address to which you
    wish notices about the state of the cluster to be sent.

Use the fields in the Configure Network Security Rules section to define
security rules that allow access to the cluster. By default, the load
balancer port is open to any IP address for client connections; you may
choose to delete the rule, and specify a more restrictive IP range.

To delete a rule from the list, highlight the rule and click the Delete
Rule button; you will be prompted to confirm that you wish to delete the
entry before the server removes the rule.

Click the Add Rule button to open the Add Rule dialog (see Figure 5.5)
and provide access to a port.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDc25a4e5cScreen Shot
2018-12-11 at 2.42.23 PM.png](images/media/image47.png)

*Figure 5.5 - Adding a security rule.*

On the Add Rule dialog:

  - Use the Port drop-down listbox to select the port that can be
    accessed from the specified CIDR. A non-administrative user can
    allow access to ports:

<!-- end list -->

  - Use the CIDR field to specify the address (or address range) that
    will be allowed access to the server through the selected port.

After modifying the configuration details for the cluster, click the
Confirm button; a dialog will open, prompting you to provide the
password associated with the connected session (see Figure 5.14).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD9d34ec09Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 3.50.38 PM.png](images/media/image58.png)

*Figure 5.14 – Provide a password to confirm changes.*

Provide a password in the Password field and click Confirm to save your
changes and exit, or Cancel to exit without saving the changes.

---
title: Connecting an Application to an EDB Ark Cluster
metaTitle: Connecting an Application to an EDB Ark Cluster
metaDescription: description
---

To connect to an Ark cluster, provide the IP address and port of the
server, and the credentials associated with the role defined when the
server cluster was created.

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 4.00.36
PM.png](images/media/image59.png)

*Figure 6.1- The Details panel on the Clusters tab.*

If you have defined a cluster with two or more servers, client
applications should always connect to the load balancing port of the
master server (the first DNS name listed in the Details panel). This
will ensure that read requests are distributed efficiently across the
cluster replicas to maximize performance, while write requests are
directed only to the cluster master. Replica server nodes are listed
below the master node in the tree view.

  - The DNSNAME column displays the address of the node; a connecting
    client should use this address when connecting to a specific server
    (see Figure 6.1).
  - The LB PORT column displays the port number to which a client
    application should connect to utilize load balancing.

<!-- end list -->

  - The DB PORT column displays the default listener port for the
    Advanced Server or PostgreSQL server. To connect directly to the
    database listener port, modify the cluster's security group to allow
    connections from your client.

Use the authentication information (Master User and Master Password)
provided on the Create a New Server Cluster dialog to establish the
initial connection to the cluster as the database superuser. Please note
that connecting with this identity grants you superuser privileges on
the server; you should not share this connection information with
un-trusted users.

After connecting as the database superuser, you should create
lesser-privileged user roles with which non-administrative users will
connect.

For detailed information about connecting to an EDB Ark cluster, please
see Section 6, *Connecting to the Cluster*.

## Using iptables Rules

In addition to configuring security groups on the Cloud Provider, EDB
Ark uses iptables rules to manage security on the console and cluster
nodes. Please note that you must *not* modify the iptables rules
provided by EDB Ark.

If you are using iptables on the host of the Ark console, do not modify
the following rules:

iptables -A PREROUTING -t nat -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 80 –j  
REDIRECT --to-port 8080  
iptables -A PREROUTING -t nat -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 443 –j  
REDIRECT --to-port 8181  
iptables -I INPUT 1 -p tcp --dport 8181 -j ACCEPT  
iptables -I INPUT 1 -p tcp --dport 8080 -j ACCEPT

These rules:

  - redirect http and https traffic on ports 80 and 443 to the default
    ports (8080 and 8181).
  - allow inbound traffic to the default administration port.
  - allow inbound traffic on 8080 and 8181.
  - save the configuration (to preserve the behaviors when the system
    reboots).

If you are using iptables on an Advanced Server cluster, do not modify
the following rules:

iptables -I INPUT 1 -p tcp --dport 7800:7802 -j ACCEPT  
iptables -I INPUT 1 -p tcp --dport 5444 -j ACCEPT  
iptables -I INPUT 1 -p tcp --dport 9999 -j ACCEPT

If you are using iptables on a PostgreSQL cluster, do not modify the
following rules:

iptables -I INPUT 1 -p tcp --dport 7800:7802 -j ACCEPT  
iptables -I INPUT 1 -p tcp --dport 5432 -j ACCEPT  
iptables -I INPUT 1 -p tcp --dport 9999 -j ACCEPT

The rules:

  - allow inbound traffic from the Ark console on ports 7800 and 7802.
  - allow inbound traffic on the database listener ports.
  - save the configuration (to preserve the behaviors when the system
    reboots).

---
title: Managing Backups and Recovery
metaTitle: Managing Backups and Recovery
metaDescription: description
---

When you use the Ark console to take a backup, EDB Ark makes a copy of
the contents of the PostgreSQL PGDATA directory. The PGDATA directory
contains the data and the meta-data required to construct an exact copy
of the Postgres data cluster (the data and the database objects that
reside within that Postgres instance).

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 4.10.28
PM.png](images/media/image60.png)To capture a backup of a cluster,
navigate to the Clusters tab, highlight a name in the cluster list, and
click the Backup icon.

> ![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD57e4bb22Screen Shot
> 2018-12-12 at 8.25.36 AM.png](images/media/image61.png)

*Figure 7.1 - The Backup Data? dialog.*

You can include a reference note about the backup that can be viewed on
the Backups tab by adding a message to the Optional notes field on the
Backup Data? dialog before clicking the Backup button (see Figure 7.1).

When you click the Backup button, EDB Ark will perform the backup. While
EDB Ark performs the backup, the PENDING column of the selected cluster
(on the Clusters tab) will display the message, Backup in progress.

## Performing a Base Backup for Point-In-Time Recovery

When point-in-time recovery is enabled, a base backup is automatically
performed that can to be used to restore to a specific point in time.
All subsequent automatic scheduled backups will also support
point-in-time recovery. Note that if you deselect this option, the
cluster (and subsequent automatic backups) will be re-configured to not
include support for point-in-time recovery.

When point-in-time recovery is enabled, the value specified in the
Backup Retention field of the Create cluster dialog determines the
duration of the point-in-time recovery backup window. For example, if
you specify a value of 7, the backup window will be 7 calendar days
long. When the backup retention threshold is reached, the oldest base
backup is removed, as well as any WAL files required to perform a
recovery with that backup.

Please note that you cannot perform a base backup on a cluster while the
database is in recovery and not accepting connections. If you attempt to
perform a base backup during recovery, the backup will fail (the failure
will be noted on the Events panel of the Clusters tab). You should
instead wait until the database recovery is complete to enable
point-in-time recovery for the cluster.

Point-in-time recovery is enabled on the Details panel of the Clusters
tab. If a base backup fails, you can trigger EDB Ark to perform a base
backup by disabling point-in-time recovery, and then (after waiting a
few minutes) re-enable point-in-time recovery.

## Reviewing Stored Backups

Navigate to the Backups tab (shown in Figure 7.2) to review a list of
stored cluster backups.

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 4.12.06
PM.png](images/media/image62.png)

*Figure 7.2 - The Backups tab of the Ark console.*

A backup captures and stores the status and condition of a cluster at a
specific point-in-time.

  - The ID column contains a unique backup identifier.
  - The CLUSTER column displays the name of the cluster that was the
    target of the backup.
  - The NOTES column displays an informational note (provided by either
    the user or the system at the time of backup). Those messages that
    include (PITR) can be restored to a specific point-in-time within
    the backup window.
  - The ENGINE VERSION column contains a description of the Postgres
    version that the saved cluster is using.
  - The CAPACITY column contains the storage capacity of the cluster at
    the time that the backup was taken.
  - The STARTED column displays the date and time that the backup was
    initiated.
  - The ENDED column displays the data and time that the backup
    completed.

You can use the icons on the left side of the Backups tab to restore or
delete the selected backup:

> ![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 4.13.25
> PM.png](images/media/image63.png)Highlight a backup in the list, and
> click the Recover Backup icon to open a dialog that allows you to
> restore a cluster from the selected backup.
> 
> ![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 4.13.45
> PM.png](images/media/image64.png)Highlight one or more backups in the
> list and click the Delete Backup icon to delete the selected backups.
> A popup will ask you to confirm that you wish to delete the selected
> backups before the backups are actually deleted.

## Restoring a Cluster from Backup

You can use a template or manually provide cluster properties when
restoring a cluster from a backup. To restore a backup into a new
cluster, navigate to the Backups tab and highlight the name of a backup.
Then, click the Recover Backup icon, located in the left margin.

If you are not a Template Only user, a dialog will open that allows you
to select the method by which you will specify cluster preferences (see
Figure 7.3).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD0e3d5154Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 4.16.53 PM.png](images/media/image65.png)

*Figure 7.3 - Selecting a Restore option.*

If you are a Template Only user or select the Restore From Template
option on the recovery method dialog, a dialog opens that allows you to
use a pre-defined template for the cluster configuration; for detailed
information about using a template to clone a cluster, see Section
7.3.1.

If you select Manually Restore A Backup, the dialog shown in Figure 7.4
opens.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD43cbcc20Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 4.17.55 PM.png](images/media/image66.png)

*Figure 7.4 - The Recover Data from a Backup dialog.*

When the Recover Data from a Backup dialog (shown in Figure 7.4) opens:

  - If applicable, use the calendar selector in the Recovery Point field
    to specify the recovery target (the date and time that the database
    was in the state in which you wish the new cluster to start). The
    Recovery Point field is only displayed for backups that were taken
    with point-in-time recovery implemented; you cannot perform a
    point-in-time recovery with a backup unless point-in-time recovery
    is enabled for the cluster when the backup was taken.
  - Specify a name for the new cluster in the Cluster Name field.
  - Check the box next to Encryption to specify that the new cluster
    should reside in an encrypted cluster. Please note that you can
    restore a non-encrypted backup into an encrypted cluster.
  - Check the box next to Perform OS and Software update to instruct EDB
    Ark to perform a yum update whenever the cluster is provisioned.
    Please note: this option is disabled if the database engine is
    statically provisioned.
  - If applicable, check the box to the left of Use Private IP addresses
    to restore the backup into a private IP address.
  - If your cluster resides on an Amazon host, use the VPC drop-down
    listbox to select a VPC on which the cluster will reside.
  - Use the Availability Zone drop-down listbox to the right of each
    node to select the availability zone in which the node will reside.
  - Use the Subnet drop-down listbox to the right of each node to select
    the subnet that the node will use.
  - Use the Server Class drop-down listbox to specify the server class
    of the new cluster.
  - If your cluster resides on an AWS host, check the box next to EBS
    Optimized to specify that your cluster should use an Amazon
    EBS-optimized instance and provisioned IOPS to guarantee a level of
    I/O performance;

<!-- end list -->

  - Check the box next to Continuous Archiving (Point-In-Time Recovery)
    to indicate that the new cluster should implement point-in-time
    recovery. Please note that to restore into a cluster with
    point-in-time recovery enabled, the backup from which you are
    restoring must have had point-in-time recovery implemented when the
    backup was taken. The checkbox will not be available if
    point-in-time recovery was not implemented when the backup was
    taken.
  - Use the Add Rule button to open a dialog that allows you to open a
    port for connections from a specified CIDR formatted address.On the
    Add Rule dialog:

<!-- end list -->

  - 9999 - for client connections and load balancing.
  - 5432 or 5444 - the cluster specific database listener port.
  - An administrative user can use the Add Rule dialog to add a rule
    that allows SSH access to Port 22.

<!-- end list -->

  - Highlight a rule and click the Delete Rule button to remove a
    security rule.

Click the Recover button to continue, or the Cancel button to exit
without starting the recovery process. A popup confirms that the cluster
is being restored (see Figure 7.5); close the popup and navigate to the
Clusters tab to monitor the restoration process.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD9f3de216Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 4.23.10 PM.png](images/media/image67.png)

*Figure 7.5 – The recovery is in progress.*

Please note: when you restore a backup, the server configuration will
match the original configuration, but the server addresses will change.

Please note: when restoring a cluster from backup, you may need to
modify parameters in the postgresql.conf file on the restored cluster to
reflect the available memory of the new instance if the server class has
changed from the original setting (the default value in the Server Class
field). After modifying the server configuration, restart the server for
the changes to take effect.

#### Using a Template to Restore from Backup

If you are a Template Only user, you will be required to use a template
when restoring a backup into a new cluster. A non-Template Only user may
find it easier (especially when restoring a number of clusters) to use a
template to define the properties that are common to multiple
deployments.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDd2c17ffdScreen Shot
2018-12-11 at 4.23.56 PM.png](images/media/image68.png)

*Figure 7.6 - Using a template to restore from a backup.*

If you are using a template when restoring a cluster from backup, use
the dialog shown in Figure 7.6 to provide the non-template details:

  - Use the Template Name drop-down listbox to select a template that
    will be used for the new cluster; to review the cluster details
    associated with the template, click the Full Template Details link.
  - If applicable, use the calendar selector to specify a point-in-time
    to which to recover.
  - Specify a name for the new cluster in the Cluster Name field.
  - Use the Availability Zone drop-down listbox to the right of each
    node to select the availability zone in which the node will reside.
  - Use the Subnet drop-down listbox to the right of each node to select
    the subnet that the node will use.
  - Use the Add Rule button to open a dialog that allows you to open a
    port for connections from a specified CIDR formatted address.
  - Highlight a rule and click the Delete Rule button to remove a
    security rule.

---
title: Automatic Failover
metaTitle: Automatic Failover
metaDescription: description
---

The EDB Ark cluster manager constantly monitors the state of each
cluster. Each cluster is composed of a single master Postgres instance
that operates in read-write mode (performing all writes to the database)
and one or more replica Postgres instances. Replica nodes are read-only,
automatically duplicating all data found on the master node, and all
changes made to that data.

If a replica fails, EDB Ark automatically spins up a new replica
instance and attaches it to the master database. The cluster continues
operating during the replacement process, with the master servicing
writes and reads, and the remaining replicas servicing reads. Overall
read performance may degrade for a short period of time until the
cluster is returned to full strength.

If a master failover occurs, the server will enforce one of two
behaviors, specified by the Cluster healing mode radio buttons, located
on the Details panel of the Clusters tab:

  - Select the Replace failed master with a new master radio button to
    specify that the cluster manager should create a new master to
    replace a failed master node.

<!-- end list -->

  - Select the Replace failed master with existing replica radio button
    to specify that the cluster manager should promote a replica node to
    be the new master node for the cluster. Choose this option when
    speed of recovery is important, and your application can tolerate
    the loss of some transactions. This is the default behavior.

Please note that replacing a failed master node with a new master node
can take a bit longer than promoting a replica node to the role of
master, but it does have the advantage of guaranteeing that no committed
data will be lost.

**Triggering a Failover**

By design, EDB Ark does **not** perform a failover when the Postgres
server is stopped, because the server stop or restart may be
intentional:

  - A user may intentionally restart the server when performing
    maintenance or tuning. For example, a server restart is required
    when updating server configuration parameters; this restart will not
    invoke failover.
  - If a user intentionally kills the postmaster process, the server
    will not failover; the postmaster process is responsible for
    restarting the server.
  - The Postgres server may intentionally perform a server restart. For
    example, when a backend server process crashes (or is intentionally
    killed by a user), the Postgres server automatically invokes a
    restart.

When a failover is complete, EDB Ark does not delete the original master
instance of the database; you can use the preserved master instance to
perform any post-mortem activities that may be required. If you do not
wish to utilize the preserved instance, you should use the management
console to delete the instance.

---
title: Manual Scaling
metaTitle: Manual Scaling
metaDescription: description
---

The Ark console makes it simple to add replicas and storage to an
existing cluster, or to upgrade to a larger server class (i.e. vertical
scaling).

  - Adding additional replicas to your database cluster increases the
    CPU power available to handle additional client requests or
    applications, increasing the number of client connections that can
    be serviced. When the scale up is complete, each additional replica
    automatically assumes a share of the read-only workload from
    incoming queries.
  - Adding additional storage to the cluster increases the amount of
    data that can be stored by the database servers. When you add
    additional storage to the cluster, each member of the cluster gets
    the additional storage amount.
  - Vertically scaling to a larger server class increases the processing
    capabilities of your cluster, allowing the server to process
    customer requests with greater speed.

You can also downsize a cluster by selectively removing a replica. You
can machine scale to a smaller machine type to reduce resource usage
(cpu/memory) and/or cost.

Please note: if you are a Template Only user, access to automatic
scaling behaviors is determined by the configuration specified on the
template used to deploy your cluster.

## Manually Adding Replicas and Storage

EDB Ark's Scale Up dialog makes it simple to manually add additional
replicas to a cluster if you find that server resources are strained.
The dialog also allows you to increase the amount of storage available
to a cluster.

If you specify that EDB Ark should add both storage and replicas, EDB
Ark will process the request for additional storage *before* adding
replicas to the cluster. All of the nodes on the cluster will be of the
newly specified storage size.

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 5.11.05
PM.png](images/media/image69.png) To add a replica or storage space to a
cluster, navigate to the Clusters tab, highlight a cluster name, and
select the Scale Up icon. The Scale Up dialog opens as shown in Figure
9.1.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD59c3e240Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 5.13.25 PM.png](images/media/image70.png)

*Figure 9.1 - The Scale Up dialog.*

Use the drop-down listboxes on the Step 1 tab to specify:

  - The number of replicas to add to the cluster.
  - The availability zone in which each node of the cluster will be
    provisioned.
  - The subnet that will be used by each node of the cluster.
  - The amount of storage memory (in Gigabytes) that will be added to
    each server in the cluster.

When you've completed the dialog, click Next to continue to the Step 2
tab (shown in Figure 9.2).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD16bf78a2Screen Shot
2018-12-11 at 5.14.55 PM.png](images/media/image71.png)

*Figure 9.2 - The Scale Up dialog.*

Use the Previous button to return to the Step 1 tab to modify specified
values. Use the Scale Up button to confirm that you wish to add the
specified number of replication servers or the specified amount of
memory to the cluster. Use the Cancel button, or simply close the dialog
to exit without modifying the cluster.

When scaling begins, EDB Ark will confirm that replicas or memory are
being added to the cluster.

## Manually Removing a Replica

EDB Ark's Scale Down dialog makes it simple to manually remove one or
more unneeded replicas from a cluster.

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-11 at 5.11.16
PM.png](images/media/image72.png) To delete a replica, navigate to the
Clusters tab, and click the Scale Down icon (shown above). The Scale
Down dialog opens as shown in Figure 9.3.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD089a1186Screen Shot
2018-12-12 at 8.27.10 AM.png](images/media/image73.png)

*Figure 9.3 - The Scale Down dialog.*

Check the box to the left of the name of a replica, and click Next to
proceed to the Step 2 tab of the dialog (shown in Figure 9.4).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD47e68be5Screen Shot
2018-12-12 at 8.27.47 AM.png](images/media/image74.png)

*Figure 9.4 - The Step 2 tab of the Scale Down dialog.*

Click Scale Down to confirm that you wish to remove the replica, or
Previous to return to the Step 1 tab. Use the Cancel button, or simply
close the dialog to exit without modifying the cluster.

## Manually Changing the Server Class

When your RAM processing needs, CPU power, or other circumstances
warrant a larger virtual machine for your application, you can
vertically scale to a larger server class. You can either:

  - Use the Scale Machine Type dialog to copy the cluster into a larger
    server class.

<!-- end list -->

  - Use the pg_dump and pg_restore utilities to move the cluster into
    a larger server class.

You can also downsize a cluster by selectively removing a replica. You
can machine scale to a smaller machine type to reduce resource usage
(cpu/memory) and/or cost.

When you vertically scale your cluster with the Scale Machine Type
dialog, EDB Ark will copy the existing cluster into a new cluster of a
different server class, and optionally re-assign the IP address of the
existing cluster to the new cluster.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD89189322Screen Shot
2018-12-12 at 8.36.49 AM.png](images/media/image75.png) To open the
Scale Machine Type dialog, navigate to the Clusters tab, and select the
Scale Machine Type icon.

> ![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD9999a2c0Screen Shot
> 2018-12-12 at 8.37.19 AM.png](images/media/image76.png)

*Figure 9.5 - The Scale Machine Type dialog.*

> Use the fields on the Scale Machine Type dialog (shown in Figure 9.5)
> to specify details about the new cluster:

  - Check the box next to Perform OS and Software update to instruct EDB
    Ark to perform a yum update whenever the cluster is provisioned.
    Please note: this option is disabled if the database engine used to
    provision the cluster is statically provisioned.
  - Use the Server Class drop-down listbox to specify the size of the
    new cluster.

---
title: Automatic Scaling
metaTitle: Automatic Scaling
metaDescription: description
---

Adding additional replicas to your database cluster increases the number
of client connections and queries that each cluster can handle, while
maintaining a high-level of overall performance. Each additional replica
automatically assumes a share of the read-only workload from incoming
queries.

When auto-scaling in enabled, EDB Ark monitors the server storage and
connection resources in use, and automatically adds additional resources
when usage exceeds a user specified percent.

  - When the % of Storage Size used is reached, EDB Ark will
    automatically increase your data space by 50%.
  - When the \# of Server Connections is reached, EDB Ark adds replica
    nodes.

Please note: if you are a Template Only user, access to automatic
scaling behaviors is determined by the configuration specified on the
template used to deploy your cluster.

## Adjusting the Automatic Scaling Thresholds

Use the Auto Scale Options controls (shown in Figure 10.1) to adjust the
threshold at which EDB Ark automatically scales up cluster resources.
The Auto Scale Options controls are located on the Details panel; to
access the Details panel, navigate to the Clusters tab, and highlight
the name of a cluster.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDd6e53803Screen Shot
2018-12-12 at 8.39.19 AM.png](images/media/image77.png)

*Figure 10.1 - The Auto Scale Options controls.*

Adjust the Auto Scale Options sliders to increase or decrease the
thresholds at which automatic scaling is invoked. When you modify the
values, EDB Ark will display a New Value Saved notice, alerting you that
your changes have been saved.

---
title: Load Balancing
metaTitle: Load Balancing
metaDescription: description
---

EDB Ark uses pgPool functionality to implement automatic load balancing.
Load balancing increases system performance by distributing client
queries to replica nodes, while routing database modifications to the
master node. Any modifications to the master node are subsequently
propagated to each replica using Postgres streaming replication.

**Utilizing Load Balancing**

By default, load balancing is enabled on an EDB Ark cluster. To utilize
load balancing, you should direct client applications to connect to the
load balancing port (by default, 9999). A cluster's load balancing port
number is displayed in the LBPORT column on the Details pane of the
Clusters tab of the Ark console.

pgPool may direct the following statement types to *either* a primary or
a standby node:

  - SELECT statements (not listed below)
  - COPY TO
  - DECLARE
  - FETCH
  - CLOSE
  - SHOW
  - SET
  - DISCARD
  - DEALLOCATE ALL

When deciding which node a query should be routed to, pgPool checks the
transaction log number; if the transaction log number on the standby
server is lower than the log number on the master, pgPool routes the
statement to the master node. This helps to ensure that the data
returned by the query is the most recent available.

In some cases, specific clauses within a query statement will signal
pgPool to direct a statement to the master node. In other cases, the
transaction type, or order of commands within a transaction can direct a
statement to the master node. By default, the following transaction
types will always be executed on the master node:

  - SELECT INTO, SELECT FOR UPDATE or SELECT FOR SHARE statements
  - SELECT statements within SERIALIZABLE transactions
  - SELECT statements that follow an INSERT statement
  - SET SESSION CHARACTERISTICS AS TRANSACTION… READ WRITE statements
  - SET transaction_read_only = off statements
  - EXPLAIN and EXPLAIN ANALYZE SELECT statements
  - START TRANSACTION… READ WRITE statements
  - LOCK commands that are stricter than ROW EXCLUSIVE MODE
  - Transactions that start with a BEGIN statement
  - The nextval() and setval() sequence functions
  - Large objects creation commands

Please Note: If your application uses JDBC, and the autocommit option is
set to false, the JDBC driver will include a BEGIN and COMMIT statement
with each SELECT statement. To enable load balancing when using the JDBC
driver, your application must include a call to setAutoCommit(true).

pgPool directs the following non-query statement types to the master
node only:

  - INSERT
  - UPDATE
  - DELETE
  - COPY FROM
  - TRUNCATE
  - CREATE
  - DROP
  - ALTER
  - COMMENT
  - PREPARE TRANSACTION
  - COMMIT PREPARED
  - ROLLBACK PREPARED
  - LISTEN
  - UNLISTEN
  - NOTIFY
  - VACUUM

**Selectively Enforcing Load Balancing**

pgPool does not enforce load balancing for SELECT statements with a
leading white space or leading comment. For example, the following
statement would be directed to the master node:

> /*Ignore load balancing*/ SELECT * FROM emp;

To enforce load balancing of SELECT statements with leading white space
or comments, modify the pgpool.conf file, and set the
ignore_leading_white_space parameter to true.

You can also use the black_list and white_list parameters (located in
the pgpool.conf file) to instruct pgPool to direct specific statements
or functions to the master node. This is useful for cases where a SELECT
statement (normally directed to a replica) calls a function that in turn
might modify the database, and so should be directed to the master.

**Monitoring Load Balancer Health**

By default, EDB Ark monitors the health of the load balancer to ensure
that service is not interrupted. If the load balancer (pgpool) should
fail while monitoring is enabled, PgPool will be automatically
restarted. If the load balancer cannot be automatically restarted, EDB
Ark will display a warning sign next to the cluster name on the Details
panel and send a notification email to the cluster user.

Deselect the Monitor Load Balancer Health checkbox (located on the
Details panel of the Clusters tab) to indicate that you do not wish for
load balancer health to be monitored and automatically restarted if an
interruption in service is detected.

---
title: Customizing Your Cluster
metaTitle: Customizing Your Cluster
metaDescription: description
---

EDB Ark creates fully-functioning, high-availability database clusters
of various sizes complete with replication, load balancing, connection
pooling, backup and failover capabilities. An EDB Ark cluster can be
defined in minutes without any special database knowledge or skills.
This characteristic is greatly appreciated by application developers who
want to create robust, data-intensive applications quickly, and who may
not have the time, inclination, or skills to otherwise achieve the same
results. This type of black box setup was designed to dramatically
increase the productivity of developers, DBAs, and system administrators
alike.

However, there are many users who, while enjoying the black box benefits
described above, prefer to take a more hands-on approach to managing
their databases. EDB Ark was also designed with these users in mind.

You can also use supporting components to extend the functionality of
your EDB Ark cluster; the following sections provide an overview of how
to add an extension to a new or existing cluster.

### The EDB Ark Administrator’s console provides an easy way to install and maintain the latest server-related packages. Talk to your system administrator about automatically including supporting components for your cluster when provisioning the database engine.

## Adding an Extension to a New Cluster

Supporting components and utilities can extend the functionality of your
Postgres cluster. For example, you may want to consider adding EDB
Postgres Enterprise Manager for management, monitoring, and statistical
analysis functionality, or PostGIS, to provide support for spatial data
types and functions.

An administrative user can use the Optional Node Packages field on the
Add Engine or Edit Engine dialog to modify a database engine definition,
providing the names of optional rpm packages that will be installed
(from the specified repository) during provisioning. All engines created
with that definition will contain the new component; the component will
be provisioned on each replica as well as on the master node. As each
rpm is installed, yum will satisfy the dependencies for the new
component.

Packages added via the Optional Node Packages field on the master node
of the cluster will be provisioned on any standby nodes that are
subsequently created. If the package requires manual configuration
steps, you will be required to repeat those steps on each node of the
cluster; package configurations will not be propagated to standby nodes.
If you add a node through cluster operations (such as failover, scaling,
or restoring a node from backup), any packages on the new node will also
require manual configuration.

For information about modifying a database engine to add a supporting
component, see the *EDB Ark Administrative User's Guide*.

---
title: Database Management
metaTitle: Database Management
metaDescription: description
---

The sections that follow detail some of the tasks that are performed
outside of the Ark console's graphical interface:

  - Moving an existing database into an EDB Ark cluster
  - Connecting a client application to a Postgres Server instance
  - Manually modifying configuration parameters on a cluster
  - Stopping and starting the server

Please note: To perform the tasks described in this section, your client
application must have permission to connect to the cluster on port 22;
an administrator must modify the security group of the cluster to permit
connections.

## Connecting to the Cluster

The following sections will walk you through the process of connecting
to a node of an EDB Ark cluster using some of the client applications
that are distributed with Advanced Server and PostgreSQL.

#### Using ssh to Access a Server

EDB Ark creates an ssh key when you create a new cluster; each cluster
has a unique key. Before connecting to a Postgres instance that resides
on the cloud via an ssh encrypted connection, you must download the ssh
key, and adjust the privileges on the key file.

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-12 at 8.40.24
AM.png](images/media/image78.png)To download your private key, navigate
to the Clusters tab, and click the Download SSH Key icon. The Accessing
Your Cluster Instance popup opens (see Figure 13.1).

> ![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD8910939bScreen Shot
> 2018-12-12 at 8.41.11 AM.png](images/media/image79.png)
> 
> *Figure 13.1 – Accessing Your Cluster Instance.*

The popup displays the tenant name, the cluster name, the name that you
should use when connecting to the cluster, and the IP address to which
you should connect.

Before using the private key, you must modify the permissions on the
keyfile. Use the following command to restrict file permissions:

> chmod 0600 *ssh_key_file*.pem

Where *ssh_key_file.pem* specifies the complete path and name of the
EDB Ark ssh private key file.

After modifying the key file permissions, you can use ssh to connect to
the cluster. Include the complete path to the key file when invoking the
command provided on the Accessing Your Cluster Instance popup.

After connecting via ssh, you can:

  - Stop, start, or restart the Postgres server.
  - Download and install Postgres extensions.
  - Use the PostgreSQL Client Applications.
  - Invoke PostgreSQL Server Applications.

#### Connecting to EDB Ark with the psql Client

After connecting to a server hosted on EDB Ark with the psql client, you
can invoke SQL commands or use meta-commands to:

  - Execute queries
  - Insert, update, and delete data
  - Create and manage database objects (tables, indexes, views, etc.)
  - Create user roles and manage privileges
  - Review object and role attributes
  - Invoke scripts containing complex (or simple) commands

By default, an EDB Ark cluster is only open to connections via port 9999
on the master node. Port 9999 is a good choice if you are connecting for
the purpose of querying the database, but if you are modifying database
objects, or performing administrative functions, you should connect
directly to the server's listener port.

*Some administrative functions, if executed over port 9999, may be
directed to the incorrect node of a multi-node cluster where they may
not have the intended effect, or may return an invalid value.*

The listener port number is displayed in the DBPORT column of the
Details panel of the Clusters tab.

Before connecting to the server's listener port, an Ark administrator
must modify the security group to allow connections from the host of
your client application.

**Connecting with psql From a Local Workstation**

After installing Advanced Server or PostgreSQL on a local workstation,
you can use psql to perform administrative tasks on an EDB Ark cluster.

To open the psql client on an Advanced Server workstation, navigate
through the Applications (or Start) menu to the Postgres Plus Advanced
Server menu; then, open the Run SQL Command Line menu, and select
EDB-PSQL.

To open a psql client on a PostgreSQL workstation, navigate through the
Applications (or Start) menu to the PostgreSQL menu, and select SQL
Shell (psql).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempVMwareDnD9028fe80Screenshot-Terminal.png](images/media/image80.png)

*Figure 13.2 – The psql command line utility.*

Provide connection information for the server to which you are
connecting:

  - When prompted for a Server, enter the IP address or DNS name of the
    EDB Ark server. The IP address is displayed in the DNSNAME column on
    the Details panel of the Clusters tab of the Ark console.
  - When prompted for a Database, enter the name of the database to
    which you wish to connect. By default, an Advanced Server cluster is
    created with a database named edb; a PostgreSQL cluster is created
    with a database named postgres.
  - When prompted for a Port, enter the port on which the server is
    listening. For database queries, you can use port 9999; if you are
    modifying database objects or performing administrative functions,
    you should use the server's listener port (5444 for an Advanced
    Server cluster, 5432 for a PostgreSQL cluster).
  - When prompted for a Username, enter the role you wish to use when
    connecting to the server. The name of the database superuser is
    specified in the Master User field when defining an EDB Ark server
    cluster. By default, the Advanced Server database superuser is
    enterprisedb. The default superuser of a PostgreSQL database is
    postgres.
  - When prompted for a Password, enter the password associated with
    that role. The database superuser's password is specified in the
    Master Password field when defining an EDB Ark server cluster.

After connecting, the prompt will display the name of the database to
which you are connected (as shown in Figure 13.2).

**Invoking psql on an EDB Ark Server**

To use a copy of the psql client that resides on the EDB Ark host, first
connect to the cluster using ssh:

> ssh -i/*path*/*ssh_key* root@*host*_*name*

After connecting to the host, assume the identity of the database
superuser (or a user with sufficient privileges to invoke the client).
On an Advanced Server host, use the command:

> sudo su enterprisedb

On a PostgreSQL host, use the command:

> sudo su postgres

Then, invoke the psql client. On an Advanced Server host, use the
command:

> /usr/bin/edb-psql -d edb

On a PostgreSQL host, use the command:

> /usr/bin/psql -d postgres

Include the -d option to specify the name of the database to which you
wish to connect. The session opens as shown in Figure 13.3.

![Screen Shot 2015-06-22 at 1](images/media/image81.png)

*Figure 13.3 - A psql session on the EDB Ark host.*

To exit the psql client, enter \\q.

For information about using psql and the psql meta-commands, please see
the Postgres documentation at:

<http://www.enterprisedb.com/docs/en/11/pg/app-psql.html>

## Moving an Existing Database into a New Cluster

You can use the Postgres pg_dump utility to migrate an existing
Postgres database (schema, data, and associated database objects) into
an EDB Ark cluster.

pg_dump creates an archive that contains the commands needed to
re-create and populate your existing database. After moving the archive
to the master node of the Ark cluster, use pg_restore to uncompress and
play the SQL commands contained in the archive. The following section
will walk you through the process of moving a database to EDB Ark using
pg_dump.

You can also use the pg_dumpall utility to move an entire *Postgres*
cluster (data, schema information, and roles) to EDB Ark; for detailed
information about using pg_dumpall, please see the Postgres
documentation at:

<http://www.postgresql.org/docs/11/static/app-pg-dumpall.html>

The following example assumes that you have provisioned an EDB Ark
cluster and opened a port for SSH connections.

**Step One – Navigate into the directory that contains pg_dump**

Open a terminal window on the system that contains your Postgres source
database, assume the identity of the Postgres superuser, and navigate
into the bin directory that resides under your Postgres installation
directory.

On Advanced Server the path to the bin directory is:

> /usr/ppas-9.x/bin

On PostgreSQL, the path to the directory is:

> /usr/pgsql-9.x/bin

**Step Two - Create the pg_dump Archive**

Use the pg_dump utility to create an archive that contains the commands
required to recreate a database. When invoking pg_dump, include the -Ft
flag to instruct pg_dump to format the output as a tar file, and the -U
flag to specify the name of the database superuser (see Figure 13.4):

> pg_dump -Ft -U *db_superuser* *db_name* \> *archive_name.tar*

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen shot 2015-03-09 at 1.56.50
PM.png](images/media/image82.png)

*Figure 13.4 - Creating the pg_dump archive.*

Where:

> *db_superuser* is the name of a Postgres database superuser.
> 
> *db_name* is the name of the database that you wish to move to EDB
> Ark.
> 
> *archive_name.tar* is the complete path and name of the archive.
> Please note that you must have permission to write a file to the
> location specified.

If prompted, enter the password associated with the database superuser.

**Step Three - Move the Archive to EDB Ark**

Use the scp command to copy the archive to the master server in the EDB
Ark cluster; include the -i option to specify the location of your ssh
key (see Figure 13.5):

> scp -i *ssh_key_file* *file_name*
> *user_name*@*host_name*:*target*

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen shot 2015-03-09 at 2.02.37
PM.png](images/media/image83.png)

*Figure 13.5 - Moving the archive to EDB Ark.*

Where:

> *ssh_key_file* specifies the pathname of the EDB Ark ssh private key
> file.
> 
> *file_name* specifies the archive name.
> 
> *user_name* specifies the name used to connect to the master node of
> the EDB Ark cluster.
> 
> *host_name* specifies the host name of the master node of the EDB Ark
> cluster; the host name is located on the Details panel of the Clusters
> tab in the Ark console.
> 
> *target* specifies the name of the target directory on the EDB Ark
> host. Including :/tmp/ at the end of this command directs scp to copy
> the file to the tmp directory

**Step Four - Connect to EDB Ark with ssh**

Use ssh to connect to your EDB Ark cluster master node. Provide the user
identity of the operating system superuser, and the location of the ssh
key (on your local host) in the command (see Figure 13.6):

ssh -i/*path*/*ssh_key*.pem root@*host_name*

Where:

> *path* specifies the location of your EDB Ark ssh certificate on the
> system from which you are connecting.
> 
> *ssh_key.pem* specifies the name of the EDB Ark ssh private key file.
> 
> *host_name* specifies the host name of the master node of the EDB Ark
> cluster; the host name is located on the Details panel of the Clusters
> tab in the Ark console.

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen shot 2015-03-09 at 2.06.18
PM.png](images/media/image84.png)

*Figure 13.6 - Connecting to EDB Ark with ssh.*

**Step Five – Navigate into the bin directory on the Ark Host**

After connecting, assume the identity of the database superuser and
navigate into the directory on the Ark host that contains the
pg_restore utility (see Figure 13.7). On an Advanced Server host:

> cd /opt/PostgresPlus/CloudDB/bin

On a PostgreSQL host:

> cd /opt/PostgreSQL/CloudDB/bin

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen shot 2015-03-09 at 2.10.34
PM.png](images/media/image85.png)

*Figure 13.7 – Navigate into the bin directory.*

**Step Six - Invoke pg_restore on the master server in the EDB Ark
cluster**

Before invoking the pg_restore utility, you must create the target
database in the master server; you can use the createdb client utility
at the command line to create the target:

> createdb -U *db_superuser* *database_name*

Where:

> *db_superuser specifies* the name of the database superuser. On an
> Advanced Server cluster, the default is enterprisedb; on a PostgreSQL
> cluster, the default is postgres*.*
> 
> *database_name* specifies the name of the database on EDB Ark.

Then, invoke the pg_restore utility:

> pg_restore -Ft -U *db_superuser* /*path*/*archive_name.tar* -d
> *target_db_name*

Where:

> *db_superuser specifies* the name of the database superuser. On an
> Advanced Server cluster, the default is enterprisedb; on a PostgreSQL
> cluster, the default is postgres*.*
> 
> *path* is the pathname to the archive on the Ark.
> 
> *archive_name.tar* is the name of the archived database.
> 
> *target_db_name* is the name of the target database on the Ark.

Include:

> the -Ft flag to specify that the file is an archive
> 
> the -U flag to specify the name of a database superuser.
> 
> the -d *target_db_name* flag to specify the name of the target
> database

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen shot 2015-03-09 at 2.15.48
PM.png](images/media/image86.png)

*Figure 13.8 - Restoring the database.*

**Step Seven - Confirm that the Move was Successful**

After performing the restore, you can use the psql client to connect to
the EDB Ark and confirm that the database has been transferred (see
Figure 13.9):

> psql -U *database_superuser* -d *target*_*db*_*name*

Where:

> *db_superuser specifies* the name of the database superuser. On an
> Advanced Server cluster, the default is enterprisedb; on a PostgreSQL
> cluster, the default is postgres*.*
> 
> *target_db_name* is the name of the target database.

Use the \\dt command to view a list of database objects in the current
database:

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen shot 2015-03-09 at 2.44.41
PM.png](images/media/image87.png)

*Figure 13.9 - Confirming that the move was successful.*

To exit the psql client, enter \\q; to exit the ssh session, type exit
and Return.

For more information about using the psql client, please see the
tutorial, *Connecting to an EDB Ark*. You can access the tutorial
through the Dashboard tab of the Ark console.

For more information about using PostgreSQL utilities to move an
existing database into EDB Ark, please see the documentation at:

<http://www.postgresql.org/docs/11/static/backup-dump.html>

#### Using Migration Toolkit to Migrate to an Ark Cluster

Migration Toolkit is a powerful command-line tool that offers granular
control of the migration process. Migration Toolkit can migrate
immediately and directly into a Postgres database (*online*
*migration*), or you can also choose to generate scripts to use at a
later time to recreate object definitions in a Postgres database
(*offline* *migration*).

If you are only migrating schema objects to a cluster, and use an ssh
tunnel (with compression enabled), online migration of database object
definitions may be a viable option. If you are migrating large amounts
of data, network overhead may make an online migration prohibitively
slow; Migration Toolkit's ‑offlineMigration option might provide a
better migration path.

For more information and documentation for Migration Toolkit, please
visit the EnterpriseDB website at:

<https://www.enterprisedb.com/products/edb-postgres-platform/edb-migration-toolkit>

EnterpriseDB also provides migration assistance. For more information,
please visit the EnterpriseDB website at:

<https://www.enterprisedb.com/services>

## Manually Modifying Configuration Files

Many of the features of a Postgres server may be influenced by settings
specified in configuration files:

  - The postgresql.conf file determines Postgres server behavior as it
    pertains to auditing, authentication, file locations, resource
    usage, query planning, statistic gathering, error handling and more.
  - The pg_hba.conf file controls the type of authentication that
    should be used when a client application connects to an EDB Ark
    service. By default, the pg_hba.conf file is configured to require
    clients to provide a valid md5-encrypted password.
  - The pg_ident.conf file contains user mappings for external
    authentication methods (like LDAP or GSSAPI). Each entry within the
    pg_ident.conf file maps an external user name to his corresponding
    Postgres user name.
  - The pgpool.conf file determines the behavior of EDB Ark as it
    pertains to load balancing.

To modify a configuration file:

1.  ssh to the node of the cluster that contains the file you wish to
    modify. For information about using ssh to connect to the server,
    see Section 13.1.1, *Using ssh to Access a Server*.
2.  Use your choice of editor to modify the files.
3.  Reload or restart the server. For detailed information about
    reloading the server, see Section 13.4, *Controlling the Server*.

When you add or remove nodes from a cluster, EDB Ark takes a backup of
your pg_hba.conf and pgpool.conf configuration files. Configuration
file backups are appended with the date that the backup was taken and a
unique identifier; for example, pg_hba.conf.20140319-140903 identifies
a backup of the pg_hba.conf file.

When modifying a configuration file, you should make changes only to
those files that *are not* appended with a timestamp and identifier.

#### Best Practices for Modifying Configuration Files

Please note that changing parameter settings can have unintended
consequences, ranging from degraded performance to system crashes.
Consequently, we recommend that only an advanced user who accepts these
risks, and has experience with both Postgres and cloud environments
modify parameter settings.

There are several ways that you can minimize the risks involved when
making parameter changes:

  - Always make a snapshot backup of your data before making parameter
    changes. For information about taking a backup, refer to Section 7,
    *Managing Backups and Recovery*.
  - Always use a test cluster to test parameter changes, to ensure they
    have the intended effect before deploying them to your production
    environment. Create a test environment that mirrors the final target
    environment as much as possible - this is easy to accomplish by
    restoring a production backup into a similar size cluster as the
    original.
  - Only change one parameter at a time (or as few as possible when
    dealing with interdependent settings) and monitor its effect until
    you are comfortable with the result.
  - Make parameter changes on a *copy* of the existing configuration
    that is in use for the master or replicas. That way, if the
    parameter change proves detrimental, it will be easy for you to
    re-apply the original settings. Keep a backup of the original
    configuration, so they can be easily restored if necessary.

When adjusting parameters, be mindful of that fact that the master node
in the cluster processes both read and write requests, while the replica
nodes in the cluster accept only read requests. You can tune the master
node and the replica nodes independently to quickly have an impact
(either positive or negative) on your write or read performance.

For more information about modifying Postgres server parameters, please
visit:

<http://www.postgresql.org/docs/11/static/runtime-config.html>

## Controlling the Database Server

You can use your platform-specific service controller to control a
Postgres database. The service name of the database server in an Ark
cluster is clouddb.

**Controlling a Service on CentOS 7.x**

If your cluster resides on CentOS version 7.x, you can use the systemctl
command to control the service. The systemctl command must be in your
search path and must be invoked with superuser privileges. To use the
command, open a command line, and enter:

> systemctl *action* clouddb

Where *action* specifies the action taken by the service command.
Specify:

  - status to discover the current status of the service.
  - start to start the service.
  - stop to stop the service.
  - restart to stop and then start the service.

**Controlling a Service on CentOS 6.x**

On CentOS version 6.x, you can control a service at the command line
with the service command. The Linux service controller mechanism allows
you to start and stop the server gracefully. The command must be in your
search path and must be invoked with superuser privileges. Open a
command line, and issue the command:

> service clouddb *action*

Where *action* specifies the action taken by the service command.
Specify:

  - status to discover the current status of the service.
  - start to start the service.
  - stop to stop the service.
  - condstop to stop the service without displaying a notice if the
    server is already stopped.
  - restart to stop and then start the service.
  - condrestart to restart the service without displaying a notice if
    the server is already stopped.
  - try-restart to restart the service without displaying a notice if
    the server is already stopped.

## Updating the Server Version on the EDB Ark Cluster

When an update becomes available for a package installed on your
cluster, the Ark console will display an alert symbol in the UP column
of the Details panel for the cluster, and in the UP column of the
DNSNAME table adjacent to the node that requires an update (see Figure
13.10):

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD83908c0eScreen Shot
2018-12-12 at 9.08.36 AM.png](images/media/image88.png)

*Figure 13.10 – The DNSNAME table.*

The overall cluster status (displayed in the top section of the Clusters
tab) is based on the values of the nodes within the cluster.

  - If all of the nodes within the cluster are up-to-date, the UP column
    displays a green checkmark.
  - If one or more nodes require a non-critical update, the UP column
    displays a yellow alert symbol.
  - If one or more nodes require a critical update, the UP column for
    the cluster displays a red error symbol.
  - If one or more nodes have an unknown package status, the UP column
    for the cluster displays a grey checkmark.

![C:UserssusanDesktopScreen Shot 2018-12-12 at 8.55.39
AM.png](images/media/image89.png)You can use the Upgrade icon (located
on the Clusters tab) to access a dialog that allows you to update the
server version on each node within the cluster.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnDceec10c4Screen Shot
2018-12-12 at 9.10.01 AM.png](images/media/image90.png)

*Figure 13.11 - The cluster upgrade dialog.*

Select the radio button next to an option to:

  - Select OS and DB Minor Version Upgrade to invoke a yum update
    command and update any outdated packages and perform a minor
    database version upgrade on each node of the cluster. For more
    information, see Section 13.5.1.
  - Select DB Major Version Upgrade to select a version and perform a
    major version upgrade of the server. Please note that this
    functionality is restricted to users that are not required to use a
    template when deploying a cluster. For more information, see Section
    13.5.2.

After making a selection, click Upgrade to continue.

#### Performing a Minor Version Upgrade

If you select the radio button next to OS and DB Minor Version Upgrade
and click the Upgrade button, the Ark console will invoke the yum update
command on each node of the cluster (see Figure 13.12). The yum update
command will update all installed packages to the most recent version
available of the same release (i.e., if you are running a 9.6 database
server, yum will update your database server to the most recent version
of 9.6).

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD121b36dcScreen Shot
2018-12-12 at 9.32.29 AM.png](images/media/image91.png)

*Figure 13.12 - The Upgrade Cluster dialog.*

Before performing the update, EDB Ark will perform a backup. During the
upgrade process, all clients will be disconnected from the server. The
updated server will retain the IP address used by the original server.
When the update has completed, clients may once again connect.

After performing a yum update, the node will be rebooted, initiating any
kernel updates required. When the update completes, EDB Ark will send an
email notification that contains a list of the updated packages.

If one or more nodes in your cluster are currently displaying an unknown
status, EDB Ark will display an error message. You must correct the
problem that is causing the unknown status before EDB Ark can perform an
update.

Please note that if the yum update command fails during the upgrade
process, EDB Ark will terminate the process and yum update will not be
run on any remaining nodes, leaving the cluster partially upgraded.

#### Performing a Major Version Upgrade

You can use the Upgrade Cluster dialog to upgrade the Postgres server
installed on your Ark cluster; the upgrade must be to a more recent
version of the same server type and must use the same server image as
the current database engine. For example, you may upgrade an Advanced
Server version 9.6 database server that resides on a CentOS 6.x host to
Advanced Server 11, but you cannot move the server onto a CentOS 7.x
host. Similarly, you may not upgrade a PostgreSQL 9.6 database server
that resides on a CentOS 7.x host to use an Advanced Server 11 server on
a CentOS 7.x host. The server type and host operating system version
must remain the same. Please note:

  - a major version upgrade may not be performed by a template-only
    user.
  - if over half of the data space allocated to a cluster is used, you
    must add storage to the cluster before performing the upgrade.

To upgrade a running cluster, select the radio button next to Major
Version Upgrade, and then use the drop-down listbox to select a server
version. Click Upgrade to continue.

![C:UserssusanAppDataLocalTempvmware-susanVMwareDnD4d6d9cedScreen Shot
2018-12-12 at 9.31.52 AM.png](images/media/image92.png)

*Figure 13.13 - The Upgrade Cluster dialog.*

A popup will open, asking you to confirm that you wish to upgrade the
server; click the Upgrade button to perform an upgrade. The server will
be briefly unavailable during the upgrade process. The upgrade does not
change the IP address and listening port of the server.

---
title: Troubleshooting
metaTitle: Troubleshooting
metaDescription: description
---

This section provides helpful troubleshooting information; if you still
have unanswered questions after reviewing this section, you can also
find solutions through EnterpriseDB:

If you have purchased support, you can log a support ticket:

> in the Customer Portal: <http://www.enterprisedb.com/support>
> 
> via email:
> [mailto:support@enterprisedb.com](mailto:support@enterprisedb.com)
> 
> or by phone: +1-732-331-1320 or 1-800-235-5891 (US Only)

If you have not purchased support, and would like to, view your support
options at:

> <http://www.enterprisedb.com/cloud-database/support>

You are always welcome to log an issue via email; when time permits, our
customer support experts will respond to inquiries from customers that
have not purchased support.

You can also find free help on a wide variety of topics in the
EnterpriseDB User Forums, at:

> <http://forums.enterprisedb.com/forums/show/21.page>

Postgres documentation and helpful tutorials are available from the EDB
Ark bookshelf, located on the Dashboard tab of the management console.

## Frequently Asked Questions

**Problem: Logging into the Console sometimes takes a long time.**

This can be attributed to delays in the connection time to the cloud
provider. When you log in, the Console Manager must pass your
credentials to the provider to log in; any delays at the service
provider may slow your connection time.

**Problem: I am attempting to connect to my cluster, but don't know my
default database name.**

  - The name of the default database in an Advanced Server cluster is
    edb.
  - The name of the default database in a PostgreSQL cluster is
    postgres.

**Problem: unable to connect to the load balancing port (9999).**

If you are having difficulty connecting to the load balancing port, you
should:

  - Make sure you are connecting to the master server's DNS name, rather
    than a replica's DNS name; the load balancer resides on the master
    node of an EDB Ark cluster.
  - Make sure that your client application is providing an MD-5
    encrypted password when attempting to connect to the load balancing
    port. The username:password-md5 combination is stored in
    pgpool_passwd.conf, and is automatically updated when a user
    changes password, or when a new user is created.

**Problem: pgpool keeps issuing the following error:
make_persistent_db_connection: s_do_auth failed.**

pgpool attempts to connect to each node to perform replication lag
checking. This happens unconditionally if pgpool is configured in a
master-slave mode and streaming replication is being used (which is the
case for EDB Ark). The pgpool community has been alerted to this
behavior; please ignore these messages.

**Question: How do I stop the Postgres server on a cluster node without
triggering a failover process?**

To safely stop a Postgres server without triggering failover, you can
use either the service command or the pg_ctl utility. For more
information, see Section 13.4.

**Problem: I am attempting to connect to my Advanced Server database
with the psql client, and am getting the error: (03/23/2012 13:36:53)-\>
psql --host=192.0.43.10 -p 9999 -U enterprisedb Password for user
enterprisedb: psql: FATAL: database "postgres" does not exist**

The psql client expects the default database to be named postgres; the
edb-psql client expects the default database to be named edb. If you
attempt to connect to an Advanced Server cluster with the psql client
without specifying the name of the database to which it should connect,
the client will fail to connect.

You can include the -d or --dbname flag, followed by the database name
when invoking either client to specify the database to which the client
should connect.

**Question: I'm trying to drop a database from a cluster, but I am
getting an error that there are open sessions. There are no clients
connected. How can I terminate any leftover backend sessions?**

It may be that pgpool is retaining a connection to the database. You can
use the pg_cancel_backend() or pg_terminate_backend() functions to
selectively close connections to the database you wish to drop.

**Question: Why do I have to restart pgPool before it will recognize new
users that I've added to the database server?**

pgPool does not check for new Postgres users. EDB Ark has a periodic
update process that updates the user list every 20 seconds; if the
update process identifies a new user, it sends a reload signal to the
pgPool process. After the reload, pgPool will allow new users to login.

Instead of reloading, simply waiting for 20 seconds between the CREATE
USER statement and the CREATEDB statement should solve the problem.

**Question: Why are scheduled backups not working?**

If you invoke the pg_start_backup() function before performing a
manual backup your database, you must remember to invoke the
pg_stop_backup() function when the backup has completed, or EDB Ark
scheduled backups will fail.

## The EDB Ark Email Notification System

EDB Ark invokes an email notification system that will alert you if your
cluster changes or encounters a problem. Email notifications are sent to
the address used to log in to the management console.

EDB Ark will send an email:

  - When a new cluster is created.
  - If a server stops (or is terminated).
  - When a replica is added to a cluster.
  - When memory is scaled up.
  - When failover is invoked on a master or a replica.
  - If a backup fails.
  - If the password associated with your user account changes.

The Notification Email field (on the User tab) allows you to change the
notification email associated with your user account; for more
information, see Section 4.4, *The User Tab*.

---
title: AWS Policies
metaTitle: AWS Policies
metaDescription: description
---

**AWS Security Policy**

When you define a new Amazon role, you are required to provide a
security policy. The following text is an example of a security policy:

{  
"Version": "2012-10-17",  
"Statement": \[ {  
"Action": \[  
"ec2:AllocateAddress",  
"ec2:AssignPrivateIpAddresses",  
"ec2:Associate*",  
"ec2:Attach*",  
"ec2:AuthorizeSecurityGroup*",  
"ec2:Copy*",  
"ec2:Create*",  
"ec2:DeleteInternetGateway",  
"ec2:DeleteNetworkAcl",  
"ec2:DeleteNetworkAclEntry",  
"ec2:DeleteNetworkInterface",  
"ec2:DeletePlacementGroup",  
"ec2:DeleteRoute",  
"ec2:DeleteRouteTable",  
"ec2:DeleteSecurityGroup",  
"ec2:DeleteSnapshot",  
"ec2:DeleteSubnet",  
"ec2:DeleteTags",  
"ec2:DeleteVolume",  
"ec2:DeleteVpc",  
"ec2:DeleteKeypair",  
"ec2:Describe*",  
"ec2:Detach*",  
"ec2:DisassociateAddress",  
"ec2:DisassociateRouteTable",  
"ec2:EnableVolumeIO",  
"ec2:GetConsoleOutput",  
"ec2:ModifyImageAttribute",  
"ec2:ModifyInstanceAttribute",  
"ec2:ModifyNetworkInterfaceAttribute",  
"ec2:ModifySnapshotAttribute",  
"ec2:ModifyVolumeAttribute",  
"ec2:ModifyVpcAttribute",  
"ec2:MonitorInstances",  
"ec2:ReleaseAddress",  
"ec2:ReplaceNetworkAclAssociation",  
"ec2:ReplaceNetworkAclEntry",  
"ec2:ReplaceRoute",  
"ec2:ReplaceRouteTableAssociation",  
"ec2:ReportInstanceStatus",  
"ec2:ResetImageAttribute",  
"ec2:ResetInstanceAttribute",  
"ec2:ResetNetworkInterfaceAttribute",  
"ec2:ResetSnapshotAttribute",  
"ec2:RevokeSecurityGroup*",  
"ec2:RunInstances",  
"ec2:StartInstances",  
"ec2:UnassignPrivateIpAddresses",  
"ec2:UnmonitorInstances"  
\],  
"Resource": "*",  
"Effect": "Allow",  
"Sid": "Stmt1407961327680"  
}, {  
"Action": \[  
"iam:PassRole"  
\],  
"Resource": "*",  
"Effect": "Allow",  
"Sid": "Stmt1407961362664"  
}, {  
"Action": \[  
"s3:CreateBucket",  
"s3:Get*",  
"s3:List*"  
\],  
"Resource": "*",  
"Effect": "Allow",  
"Sid": "Stmt1407961630932"  
}, {  
"Action": \[  
"s3:Put*",  
"s3:Get*",  
"s3:DeleteObject*"  
\],  
"Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::*",  
"Effect": "Allow",  
"Sid": "Stmt1407961734627"  
}, {  
"Condition": {  
"StringEquals": {  
"ec2:ResourceTag/CreatedBy": "EnterpriseDB"  
}  
},  
"Action": \[  
"ec2:RebootInstances",  
"ec2:StopInstances",  
"ec2:TerminateInstances"  
\],  
"Resource": "*",  
"Effect": "Allow",  
"Sid": "Stmt1407961927870"  
}  
\]  
}

**AWS User Trust Policy**

When you define an Amazon role, you are required to provide a security
policy. The following text is an example of a trust policy:

{  
"Version": "2012-10-17",  
"Statement": \[  
{  
"Sid": "",  
"Effect": "Allow",  
"Principal": {  
"Service": "ec2.amazonaws.com"  
},  
"Action": "sts:AssumeRole"  
},  
{  
"Sid": "",  
"Effect": "Allow",  
"Principal": {  
"AWS": "arn:aws:iam::747919436152:root"  
},  
"Action": "sts:AssumeRole",  
"Condition": {  
"StringEquals": {  
"sts:ExternalId": "EDB-PPCD-CONSOLE"  
}  
}  
}  
\]  
}
